New European Regulation Forces Finance to Up its ESG Game - Fair Observer
World
Africa
Asia Pacific
Central & South Asia
Europe
Latin America & Caribbean
Middle East & North Africa
North America
Coronavirus
Politics
US Politics
Joe Biden
Extremism
Europe
European Union
India
Arab World
Economics
Finance
Eurozone
International Trade
Business
Entrepreneurship
Startups
Technology
Culture
Entertainment
Music
Film
Books
Travel
Environment
Climate Change
Smart Cities
Green Economy
Global Change
Education
Refugee Crisis
International Aid
International Security
ISIS
War on Terror
North Korea
Nuclear Weapons
Science
Health
360 °
The Interview
In-Depth
Insight
Quick Read
Video
Podcasts
Interactive
Sign Up
Support FO°
Login
LOGIN
Username or Email Address
Password
Remember Me
Log In
Lost your password?
Forget Password?
New to Fair Observer? Register Now
Contributor
Member
New European Regulation Forces Finance to Up its ESG GameWith the climate crisis dominating headlines, Europe has introduced a regulatory framework for environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors that gives a big push to its sustainable finance agenda.
Green ball that writes the word ESG with ESG icon concept for environmental, social, and governance in sustainable and ethical business on the Network connection on a green background. © Juicy FOTO / shutterstock.com
Sophia Wright
November 28, 2022 00:50 EDT
Support FO°
Europe has introduced a new set of rules for the financial sector focused on sustainability, social and environmental change. The Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation was designed to increase transparency in sustainable investment markets and covers a broad range of environmental, social and governance (ESG) metrics. This is good news, of course, perhaps long overdue, some would argue.
The SFDR came into effect in March 2021 as a fundamental aspect of the European Commission’s sustainable finance agenda. The draft regulation, drawn up in November 2019, “lays down harmonised rules for financial market participants and financial advisers on transparency with regard to the integration of sustainability risks and the consideration of adverse sustainability impacts in their processes and the provision of sustainability‐related information with respect to financial products.”
In short, the regulation obliges financial asset managers, financial institutions and other actors providing financial services to disclose their approach to ESG considerations during their decision making processes. The idea is to encourage investors and asset managers to pay more attention to sustainability risk, environmental concerns and allay fears of greenwashing.
Changes and challenges
SFDR has certainly changed the ecosystem of many capital markets, but some investment houses have found that reporting has remained optional. They are, however, certainly aware that falling behind in the widespread push for ESG transparency could mean missing out on opportunities for capital raising and real sustainable value creation. The sustainable investment boom is here to stay, and with increased public scrutiny on private firms’ ESG practices, there is nowhere to hide for companies with weak credentials. A classic example of this development is Deliveroo’s recent IPO flop.
Isn’t It Time to Challenge the Growth Paradigm?
READ MORE
The European Union’s push for greener business practices and net-zero targets has only increased the pressure on the financial sector to do its bit. Along with the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), the SFDR is part of the EU’s sustainable finance framework that has been designed to support the European Green Deal, which aims to channel private investment towards the transition to a climate-neutral economy.
More specifically, the SFDR focuses on entity-level disclosure obligations, divided into three main areas. They are as follows:
the integration of sustainability risks in the investment decision-making and advisory process,
principle Adverse Impacts (PAIs) of investment decisions on sustainability factors, and
transparency of information for products that either advertise their ESG characteristics (Article 8) or describe themselves as sustainable investments (Article 9).
Of course, these new rules have made waves in financial circles, not least in the private equity sphere. For many, they remain vague and open to interpretation, which has often led to generic and qualitative disclosures. The sector is still lacking in high quality, detailed industry guidance and quantitative data on ESG impact for investments.
ESG is not that new
With Europe quickly catching up and applying regulative measures regarding ESG on the financial sector, some firms have proven to be more prepared than others. Sustainable investing is of course not new, but for years it was considered high risk and low yield. This is no longer the case, with real value creation being found in companies whose ecological focus and social commitments remain high strategic priorities.
Should PR Agencies Not Represent Fossil Fuel Clients?
READ MORE
In the private equity sphere, ESG has been mainstreamed thanks to the growing realization that values creation and sustainability can go hand-in-hand. According to Anna Follér, Head of Sustainability, Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund, “basic ESG integration in private equity is a question of good hygiene, while advanced ESG integration offers a competitive edge. The private equity model is particularly well-placed to embrace ESG.” This is due to both collaboration and better access to reliable data, both of which “underpin robust ESG frameworks.” Private equity’s basic tenet, to build a better business than the one they bought in order to create value, is well adapted to creating sustainable growth on an upward trajectory.
Dominique Senequier, the CEO and founder of Ardian, the French private equity house making waves on the international scene, has long understood the potential of PE to be at the forefront of a global move towards sustainable investment. Back in 2020, the firm launched a Sustainable Measurement Methodology in order to quantify and analyze the environmental impact and sustainability outlook of its portfolio companies. According to Candice Brenet, the head of sustainability and managing director at Ardian, “we observed that management teams generally wanted to work on sustainability issues.”
Make Sense of the World
Unique Insights from 2,500+ Contributors in 90+ Countries
I agree to receive emails and other content from Fair Observer. I understand that I may repeal my consent at any time. You can review our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use for further information...
“For 14 years Ardian has been gaining expertise in sustainability and arguing that finance must be a force for good. The instability that has rocked Europe in 2022 might encourage some to relax their focus on sustainability, at least temporarily. That would be a mistake. We are fully committed to our vision of Ardian as an agent of positive change”, said Dominique Senequier.This is because sustainability is now a key driver of value: “There is no contradiction of sustainable investments and sustainable returns, quite the opposite actually,” as Thomas Gottstein, CEO of Crédit Suisse put it. Indeed, the numbers support this assertion. Morningstar research focused on the long-term performance of 745 Europe-based sustainable funds has shown that the majority have done better than non-ESG funds over one, three, five and ten years.
The views expressed in this article are the author’s own and do not necessarily reflect Fair Observer’s editorial policy.
For more than 10 years, Fair Observer has been free, fair and independent. No billionaire owns us, no advertisers control us. We are a reader-supported nonprofit. Unlike many other publications, we keep our content free for readers regardless of where they live or whether they can afford to pay. We have no paywalls and no ads.
In the post-truth era of fake news, echo chambers and filter bubbles, we publish a plurality of perspectives from around the world. Anyone can publish with us, but everyone goes through a rigorous editorial process. So, you get fact-checked, well-reasoned content instead of noise.
We publish 2,500+ voices from 90+ countries. We also conduct education and training programs on subjects ranging from digital media and journalism to writing and critical thinking. This doesn’t come cheap. Servers, editors, trainers and web developers cost money. Please consider supporting us on a regular basis as a recurring donor or a sustaining member.
Make a Donation
Become a Member
Fair Observer Recommends
Isn’t It Time to Challenge the Growth Paradigm?
John Feffer,
September 22, 2022
The Amazon of Europe Bike Trail
Institute for the Danube Region and Central Europe,
December 2, 2021
The Quest to Paint the World Green
John Feffer,
March 12, 2021
Fair Observer, 461 Harbor Blvd, Belmont, CA 94002, USA
Subscribe
Register for $9.99 per month and become a member today.
Publish
Join our community of more than 2,500 contributors to publish your perspective, share your narrative and shape the global discourse.
Donate
We bring you perspectives from around the world. Help us to inform and educate. Your donation is
tax-deductible.
Explore
About
Republish
Authors
Privacy Policy
FO Store
Terms of Use
FAQs
Contact
Regions
Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Asia Pacific
Middle East & North Africa
Central & South Asia
North America
Europe
Topics
Politics
Environment
Economics
Global Change
Business
International Security
Culture
Science
Sections
360°
Video
The Interview
Podcasts
In-Depth
Interactive
Insight
My Voice
Quick Read
Daily Dispatch
I
agree to receive emails and other content from Fair Observer. I understand that I
may repeal my consent at any time. You can review our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use for further
information .
Designed, Developed and Maintained by Netleon Technologies
© Fair Observer All rights reserved
Fill below form to share your concern with us
*Indicates required field
BOOKMARK
Want to save this post?
Register as a member to support independent journalism and enjoy subscriber benefits.
BECOME A MEMBER
NEWSLETTER
Make Sense of the World
Unique Insights from 2,500+ Contributors in 90+ Countries
I agree to receive emails and other content from Fair Observer. I understand that I may repeal my consent at any time. You can review our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use for further information.
NEWSLETTER
Make Sense of the World
Unique Insights from 2,500+ Contributors in 90+ Countries
I agree to receive emails and other content from Fair Observer. I understand that I may repeal my consent at any time. You can review our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use for further information.
We Need Your Consent We use cookies to give you the best possible experience. Learn more about how we use cookies or edit your cookie preferences. Privacy Policy.
My Options I AcceptPrivacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Edit Cookie Preferences
The Fair Observer website uses digital cookies so it can collect statistics on how many visitors come to the site, what content is viewed and for how long, and the general location of the computer network of the visitor. These statistics are collected and processed using the Google Analytics service. Fair Observer uses these aggregate statistics from website visits to help improve the content of the website and to provide regular reports to our current and future donors and funding organizations. The type of digital cookie information collected during your visit and any derived data cannot be used or combined with other information to personally identify you. Fair Observer does not use personal data collected from its website for advertising purposes or to market to you.
As a convenience to you, Fair Observer provides buttons that link to popular social media sites, called social sharing buttons, to help you share Fair Observer content and your comments and opinions about it on these social media sites. These social sharing buttons are provided by and are part of these social media sites. They may collect and use personal data as described in their respective policies. Fair Observer does not receive personal data from your use of these social sharing buttons. It is not necessary that you use these buttons to read Fair Observer content or to share on social media.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
These cookies essential for the website to function.
Social Media
Social Media
These cookies are used to enable sharing or following of content that you find interesting on our website. These settings apply to third-party social networking and other websites.
Performance & Functionality
Performance & Functionality
These cookies are used to enhance the performance and functionality of our website. They provide statistics on how our website is used and help us improve by measuring errors. Certain functionalities on our website may become unavailable without these cookies.
Analytics
Analytics
SAVE & ACCEPT