What are “sustainable finance” and “ESG”?
Careers
Press Room
Shareholders and Investors
Our Approach
About Us
Santander Share
MAD
SUGGESTED RESULTS
THERE ARE NO SUGGESTED RESULTS
SEE ALL RESULTS
Santander
Menu
Search
que-son-las-finanzas-sostenibles-o-asg
shares of stock
Share
Argentina
Brazil
Chile
Germany
Mexico
Poland
Portugal
Spain
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Directory
Home
About us
Our business model
Key facts and figures
Where we are
Financial services
Corporate culture
Who’s who
Our brand
Our sponsorship
Santander Group City
Our history
Our approach
Our strategy
Our culture
A talented
and engaged team
Acting responsibly towards our customers
Risk culture
Responsible procurement
Inclusive and sustainable growth
Supporting the green transition
Financial inclusion and empowerment
Financial education
Support for higher education
Discover all our challenges
Community investment
Reports
Policies
Initiatives
Shareholders and Investors
Santander Share
Price
Closing Markets
Dividends
Presence in indexes
Coverage
Capital transactions
Share capital distribution
Financial and economic information
Relevant information
Quarterly Results
Quarterly Shareholder Report
Annual Report
Pillar III disclosures report
Filings with other regulatory bodies
TLAC Disclosure
Fixed-Income
Fixed-Income Presentations
Ratings
Debt Issuances
Programmes
Securitisation
Issuance Companies Financial Statements
Securities Registration Document
Corporate Events
Annual General Meeting
Investor Day
Agenda
General Information
ESG Presentation
Institutional presentation
Other presentations
Shareholders Contact
Investors Contact
Universal Registration Document
Significant equity shareholdings and treasury stock
Offer to acquire outstanding shares and ADSs of Banco Santander Mexico (November 2021)
History of Corporate Operations
FAQs
Corporate governance
Corporate Governance Presentation
By-laws
Annual report on corporate governance
Committees' reports
Annual report on directors' remuneration
Policy on Communication and Engagement with Shareholders and Investors
Rules and Regulations of the Board of Directors
Board of directors
Board committees
International advisory board
Rules and Regulations for the General Shareholders' Meeting
Codes of conduct
Press Room
Press releases
Social Media
Things that inspire us
Santander International Banking Conference
Careers
Where do you want to make an impact?
We grow with you
We care about you
Share
Whatsapp
Twitter
Facebook
Linkedin
E-mail
Copy URL
URL copied to clipboard
CLOSE (3s)
Santander Share
This share prices have a 15 minute delay and are shown in the local time of the market in which the quote is displayed.
2
Santander Share
Dividends
Quarterly Results
Quarterly Shareholder Report
Relevant Information
Pillar III disclosures report
Annual Report
Fixed-Income
Corporate Events
Corporate Governance
General Information
Information for shareholders and investors
Corporate governance and remuneration policy
What are sustainable finance and ESG?
0
0
Scroll down
27/09/2021
While sustainable finance might seem a new idea, it’s been around for more than two decades. In recent years, it’s gained considerable ground because it upholds values that society insists on.
Nuria wants to get more out of her savings and is thinking about investing in a company that shares her ethical and environmental values. “Socially responsible” investment is just one of many aspects of sustainable finance.
What is sustainable finance?
The economy plays a pivotal role in society and must fulfil its needs. Sustainability poses one of mankind’s biggest challenges: how to grow steadily all while causing no harm to the planet, easing the devastation wrought by climate change and bridging the gap with more vulnerable groups.
To get where we need to be, the public and private sectors must work together and we must all act responsibly. Banks understand this and have been pushing for sustainable investment to build a more responsible future.
From an ethical standpoint, sustainable finance is about taking social and environmental factors into account when investing. Banks have created ESG products to meet the needs of those who want to invest more sustainably and help steer society towards responsible development.
ESG criteria tell us how a company operates in terms of:
E for Environment: It refers to business practices that have a direct or indirect impact on the environment, especially in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, preservation of biodiversity, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
S for Social: It refers to business practices that affect society. Here we delve into companies’ values and compliance in regard to employee rights, salaries, diversity and inclusion and customer satisfaction.
G for Good Governance: It refers to business management, transparency, internal regulation and procedures, especially in relation to a company’s goals to bridge the salary gap, break the glass ceiling and eradicate discrimination on the grounds of gender, age, religion, sexual orientation and disability.
Types of sustainable finance
Many ESG financial products have a social purpose and promote sustainable growth and development:
Sustainable investment funds: Investment schemes that put our money towards projects that uphold our ethical values. Many invest in companies that innovate and improve energy efficiency and social conditions.
Green and social bonds: Debt instruments issued by organizations to fund their socially responsible projects.
Social venture capital: Investment in companies whose purpose is to create solutions to social and environmental issues. Investors expect returns and sustainability.
Green loans: An advance of funds for activities that help the environment, like purchasing efficient domestic appliances, low-emissions vehicles and other eco-friendly items.
Want to find out more about sustainable finance? Read this article (in Spanish) by Finanzas para Mortales (Finance for Mortals).
Why invest in sustainable finance?
To address society’s needs and concerns, the financial sector is undertaking a transformation, driven by initiatives like the Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA), in which Santander (a founder member) and other banks have committed to shifting their portfolios towards more sustainable products in order to reach net zero emissions.
The EU and government agencies have also reinforced their commitment through policymaking to fight climate change and foster the inclusion of vulnerable groups.
Investors are also adamant about ethics and environmental values and prefer that their portfolios include companies with eco-friendly and socially responsible business models.
Studies show that people are demanding more sustainable finance. The Otro consumo para un futuro mejor (“Alternative consumption for a brighter future”) report by Nueva Economía e Innovación Social (NESI) and the Organización de Consumidores y Usuarios (OCU) concluded that, in Spain, 73% of people make financial decisions based on sustainability criteria.
Investments in sustainable finance enable us to have a positive impact on the planet and society. They help companies that adopt renewable energy and more humane and responsible business models. To find out more about sustainable investment, check out this Openbank article (in Spanish).
ESG in the value chain
Financial Education
Financial Inclusion
Responsible Banking
Sustainability
You might like
FIND OUT MORE
Useful links
Asset management
Santander Asset Management
Santander Asset Management (ESP)
Santander Asset Management (BRA)
Santander Asset Management (MEX)
Santander Asset Management (ARG)
Santander Asset Management (DEU)
Santander Asset Management (POL)
Santander Asset Management (UK)
Santander Asset Management (CHI)
Santander Asset Management (LU)
Local banks
Santander (ES)
Santander (BRA)
Santander (UK)
Santander (PT)
Santander (MEX)
Santander (CHI)
Santander (ARG)
Santander (GER)
Santander (USA)
Santander (PL)
Openbank (ES)
Santander (Peru)
Santander (URU)
Santander (COL)
Consumer finance
Santander Consumer Finance
Santander Consumer Bank (GER)
Santander Consumer Bank (AUS)
Santander Consumer Bank (BE)
Santander Consumer Finance (BE)
Santander Consumer Bank (DK)
Santander Consumer (USA)
Santander Consumer Finance (ES)
Santander Consumer Finance (FI)
Santander Consumer Banque (FR)
Santander Consumer Finance (HOL)
Santander Consumer Bank (ITA)
Santander Consumer Bank (NO)
Santander Consumer (PT)
Santander Consumer Finance (UK)
Roadloans (USA)
Santander Consumer Bank (PL)
Santander Consumer Bank (SWE)
Chrysler Capital (USA)
Private banking
Santander Private Banking
Santander Private Banking (MIA)
Santander Private Banking (ES)
Santander Private Banking (BRA)
Santander Private Banking (ARG)
Santander Private Banking (PT)
Santander Private Banking (MEX)
Santander Private Banking (CHI)
Santander Corporate & Investment Banking
Santander Corporate & Investment Banking
Universities
Santander Scholarships
Santander X
Santander Universities Germany
Santander Universities Argentina
Santander Universities Brazil
Santander Universities Chile
Santander Universities Mexico
Santander Universities Portugal
Santander Universities United Kingdom
Santander Universities Uruguay
Universia
Fundación Universia
Foundations
Fundación Banco Santander
Santander Cultural
Santander Foundation
Highlights
Santander International Banking Conference
Santander X Global Challenge
Footballcan2041
Are you a Cyber Hero?
Ace your digital life
International Women's Day
Cyber Guardian
Santander General Shareholders' Meeting
#TheRightChange
Universia International Rectors Meeting
Euros from your salary programme
For an Everyday Cyber
Wherever you are
Other sites of interest
Aquanima
Santander Inmuebles España
Archivo Histórico Banco Santander
Casa Compara México
Santander Trade
Conferencia Internacional de Banca
Mouro Capital
Finanzas para Mortales
Santander SmartBank
Legal
Legal Notice
Cookie Policy
Data Protection Policy
Accessibility
Exenciones Intragrupo EMIR
CFTC and SEC Swap and Security-Based Swap Disclosures and Notices
EMIR FRANDT Disclosure
EMIR FRANDT Request For Proposal
Foreign Exchange Disclosure Notice
Pre-Hedging Disclosure Notice
Banco Santander Hong Kong Branch
Banco Santander London Branch
Links of interest
Results
Contact us
Social media profiles
Report phishing
Canal Abierto
Espacio Pereda
© Banco Santander S.A. All rights reserved. Corporate Headquarters: CGS Av. Cantabria s/n 28660 Boadilla del Monte, Madrid (Spain)
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Lo sentimos, la página que buscas no está disponible en el idioma seleccionado
Lamentablemente, no podemos ofrecerte este contenido en el idioma seleccionado. Si lo prefieres, puedes seguir consultando esta información en el idioma disponible, o por el contrario, ir a la página de inicio.
Aceptar y seguir navegando
Ir a la página de inicio