Sustainable Finance, Investing and ESG | NYU Stern Executive Education
Skip Navigation
Take a Course
Programs for Organizations
Executive Degrees
About
Talk to an Advisor
Cart
0
Account
Menu
Close Menu
Take a Course
Programs for Organizations
Executive Degrees
About
Talk to an Advisor
My Account
Home /
Collections / Programs for Individuals
/ Sustainable Finance, Investing and ESG
Sustainable Finance, Investing and ESG
$4,680.00
Location
NYU Stern School of Business44 West 4th StreetNew York, NY 10012
View Map
Sustainable Finance, Investing and ESG
$4,680.00
Dates Not Available
Quantity
Jump to Agenda
Jump to Program Takeaways
Notify Me When More Dates Are Available
Customize This Course for My Organization
Tuition Assistance
Frequently Asked Questions
Terms and Conditions
Overview
PLEASE NOTE: This program is currently being offered as a live online course. See agenda below for schedule.
Sustainable investing is a topic of increasing interest to the financial community.  With global environmental and social challenges increasing, and with meaningful millennial participation in markets anticipated, trillions of dollars are beginning to shift. The battle for future market share may well be won by those who respond best to this new investment paradigm. Sustainable Finance and ESG Investing provides participants with the experience, tools and community of practice they will need to become an important part of this global paradigm.
Through a combination of lecture, discussion and group exercises, participants will learn about financially material Environmental Social Governance (ESG) indicators and data providers, and learn how to translate corporate performance on sustainability into financial performance. They will also review best practices in ESG and impact investing, and develop their own sustainable investment strategies. Executives will leave this course with concrete ideas about how to incorporate sustainable investment practices within their organizations.
Certificates and Credits
Upon completion of this course, participants will receive a Certificate of Achievement.
Download Brochure
Program Takeaways
During this course, participants will:
Leadership Skills
Develop the skills required to invest in businesses in a rapidly evolving environmental, social and political ecosystem. Those skills include system and design thinking,
developing and executing ESG investment strategies, and managing radical transparency.
Stakeholder Engagement
Broaden executive perspectives beyond Milton Friedman’s view that companies exist solely to deliver profits to shareholders to consider other stakeholders in the company (i.e., customers, employees, suppliers, etc.) and how they can be recruited as partners to help your organization succeed
Innovation & Efficiencies
Develop the skills to identify and accelerate innovation in the organization by embedding the evaluation of sustainability impacts and outcomes in your products, services, and processes.
Who Should Attend
Although there are no formal education or background requirements, this course is designed for executives who meet the criteria below. While we strongly encourage global participation, please note that all courses are taught in English. Proficiency in written and spoken English is required.
Years of Experience
Designed for professionals with 5+ years of work experience
Job Functions
Ideal for executives in significant leadership roles who are interested in learning more about sustainable finance
Prerequisites
There are no formal prerequisites for this course. The course is Intended for individuals with limited exposure to sustainable investing, though students with a background in finance will benefit most from the course.
Agenda
The following agenda is a sample and subject to change.
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Please note: this agenda has been modified for live online instruction.
9:00 - 10:30 am ET: Session 1: Key Trends in Sustainable Business and Relevance for Finance
What is ‘sustainable business’
Key economic, environmental, social and governance issues
Sustainable business: profitability and social impact performance
The sustainable consumer and consumer demand for sustainability
Current trends for embedding sustainability in corporate strategy
Impact of COVID-19 coronavirus
Kick off with small group discussion: Reflections on the readings
10:30 - 11:00 am ET: Break
11:00 - 12:30 pm ET: Session 2: Case Studies - Companies Setting the Standard
The specific case studies used in this session will be tailored to the audience, but could include:
Nike: Sustainability and Innovation through Flyknit Technology
Nespresso: Supply Chain and Stakeholder Engagement Case Study
Avery Dennison: Innovative Marketing of Sustainability Attracts More Loyal Customers
Citigroup, Inc.: Innovation in Energy Efficiency Financing
Domtar: Embedding Operational Efficiency
KKR: Sustainability as a Performance Enhancer
Small group working session: What are the commonalities across these corporate approaches to sustainability? As an investor, what should we be looking for?
Please note: this agenda has been modified for live online instruction.
9:00 - 10:30 am ET: Session 3: Emerging Strategies and Trends in Sustainable Finance
The current state of sustainable investing, multiple emerging strategies
The evidence on delivering alpha from sustainability
Key challenges ahead for sustainable investing
Impact of COVID-19 coronavirus
Pathways to overcome barriers
Small group discussion
10:30 - 11:00 am ET: Break
11:00 - 12:30 pm ET: Session 4: Measuring Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Performance
Materiality and frameworks, strengths and weaknesses (including SASB, GRI, TCFD)
Specific investor case studies
Compare and contrast (including overnight exercise)
Opportunities and challenges for delivering impact by addressing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Specific strategies and the roles of asset owners and fund managers
Small group working session: work on a case to identify key ESG issues (including separate fund manager and asset owner discussions)
Please note: this agenda has been modified for live online instruction.
9:00 - 10:30 am ET: Session 5: Monetizing the Value of Sustainability
New measures for quantifying operational ESG performance
Turning non-financial performance into financial value
Quantifying the impact of ESG performance on the corporate bottom line
Monetizing the benefits delivered outside the company
10:30 - 11:00 am ET: Break
11:00 - 12:30 pm ET: Session 6: Monetizing the Value of Sustainability (cont.)
Small group working session: work on a case
Please note: this agenda has been modified for live online instruction.
9:00 - 10:30 am ET: Session 7: Investing Strategies
Reflections on the overnight exercises
ESG issue and shareholder engagement
New financing mechanisms for scaling up investment in sustainability
Impact investing and Impact Measurement
Other techniques for ESG integration
Global considerations
10:30 - 11:00 am ET: Break
11:00 - 12:30 pm ET: Session 8: Hands-on Investment Strategy Development
Build a portfolio objective and related fund materials
Teams will produce a one-page sheet including a paragraph objective and target financial metrics of a single sustainable or impact investment fund that you intend to launch
Small group working sessions
Please note: this agenda has been modified for live online instruction.
9:00 - 10:30 am ET: Hands-on Project: Build Your Own Investment Strategy
Building on the one-page fund sheet designed in the previous session, participants practice creating and deploying a specific investment process, resulting in a starting portfolio of companies or investments
10:30 - 11:00 am ET: Break
11:00 am - 12:30 pm ET: Project Presentations & Wrap-Up
Program Faculty
Our courses are taught by seasoned NYU Stern faculty and renowned subject matter experts. Please note that course faculty are subject to change depending upon availability.
Cary Krosinsky
Leading Teacher, Author and Advisor on Sustainable Finance
> View full profile
Chisara Ehiemere
Senior Research Lead of Return on Sustainability Investment (ROSI), NYU Stern Center for Sustainable Business
> View full profile
Participant Reviews
Based on 4 reviews
Write a review
Related Programs
BUNDLE: Achieving Your Leadership Vision
$7,463.00
$8,780.00
Next Dates: June 20 - 23, 2023, 9:00am - 4:30pm ET
BUNDLE: Mastering Corporate Finance
$6,290.00
$7,400.00
Next Dates: May 3 - 5 and May 8 - 10, 2023, 10:00 am - 2:30 pm ET
Corporate Sustainability: Pivoting Towards an ESG Mindset
$3,800.00
Next Dates: January 23 - 26, 2023, 9:00 am - 12:30 pm ET
Join Our Mailing List
Stay up to date on new courses, special events, free content and more. Enter your email address below to subscribe.
Website Index Navigation
Take a Course
Course Catalog
Executive Certificate Programs
Online Executive Certificate Programs
Areas of Expertise
What to Expect
Programs for Organizations
Enterprise Learning Solutions
Client Success Stories
Enterprise Inquiry Form
About Executive Education
About Us
Our Faculty
Logistics & Directions
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
Sitemap
About NYU
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
© 2023. All rights reserved.
.
×