Sustainable Finance in Financial Services | EY - Global
skip to the content
EY Homepage
Search
Open search
Close search
See all results in Search Page
Close search
No results have been found
Recent searches
See all results for
Topics
General
People
Trending
8 transformative actions to take in 2023
16 Dec 2022
Consulting
How can slowing climate change accelerate your financial performance?
2 Nov 2022
Sustainability
How to shift strategy for a new geostrategic era in 2023
13 Dec 2022
Geostrategy
Open Navigation Menu
Close Navigation Menu
Insights
Insights
Asking the better questions that unlock new answers to the working world's most complex issues.
Explore
Trending topics
Technology
Transformation
Long-term value
Sustainability
Trust
Purpose
See more Trending topics
C-suite agendas
CEO
CFO
Operations leaders
Technology leaders
EY Center for board matters
See more
C-suite agendas
Back Insights
Services
Services
EY helps clients create long-term value for all stakeholders. Enabled by data and technology, our services and solutions provide trust through assurance and help clients transform, grow and operate.
Explore
Strategy by EY-Parthenon
Strategy by EY-Parthenon
Strategy consulting
Corporate and growth strategy
Transaction strategy and execution
Restructuring and turnaround strategy
Industry strategy
Digital strategy
Commercial strategy
More about EY-Parthenon
Close Strategy by EY-Parthenon
Consulting
Consulting
Analytics consulting services
Customer experience
Cybersecurity, strategy, risk, compliance and resilience
Digital transformation
Risk consulting services
Supply chain and operations
Technology transformation
Transformation platform
Explore Consulting
Close Consulting
People and workforce
People and workforce
Change management and experience
HR transformation
Integrated workforce mobility
Learning and development consulting
Recognition and reward advisory
Workforce analytics
Explore People and workforce
Close People and workforce
Transactions and corporate finance
Transactions and corporate finance
Corporate finance
Divestments and carve-outs
Sustainability and ESG Services
M&A advisory
M&A integration
M&A technology and tools
M&A advanced analytics
Capital allocation
Value creation, preservation and recovery
Explore Transactions and corporate finance
Close Transactions and corporate finance
Assurance
Assurance
Audit services
Climate change and sustainability services
Financial accounting advisory services
Forensic and integrity services
Private client audit experience
Long-term value metrics creation
Explore Assurance
Close Assurance
Tax
Tax
Tax planning
Tax function operations
Tax policy and controversy
Global trade
Global tax reform
Tax compliance
Transaction tax
Private tax services
Explore Tax
Close Tax
Law
Law
Corporate and commercial law
Digital law
Labor and employment law
Legal operations
Transaction law
Explore Law
Close Law
Technology
Technology
Advanced technology
Audit technology
Tax technology
Connected capital technologies
Technology transformation
Alliances and ecosystems
Close Technology
Managed services
Managed services
Tax managed services
Finance managed services
Risk managed services
Legal managed services
Explore Managed Services
Close Managed services
EY Private
EY Private
EY Private client experience
Audit experience: Designed for private
Tax services: Designed for private
Family enterprise
IPO
Entrepreneurship
Explore EY Private
Close EY Private
EY Sustainability
EY Sustainability
Climate change and sustainability services
Sustainable finance
ESG strategy services
Supply chain transformation
Tax services
Legal services
Global renewables
Climate and decarbonization
Environment, Health and Safety
Explore EY Sustainability
Close EY Sustainability
Spotlight
Strategy, transaction and transformation consulting
Technology transformation
Tax function operations
Climate change and sustainability services
EY Ecosystems
Business transformation platform
Back Services
Industries
Industries
Discover how EY insights and services are helping to reframe the future of your industry.
Explore
Advanced manufacturing and mobility
Consumer
Energy and resources
Financial services
Government and infrastructure
Health sciences and wellness
Private equity
Technology, media and telecommunications
Case studies
Consulting How blockchain helped a gaming platform become a game changer
Deep Ghumman
Strategy and Transactions M&A strategy helped a leading Nordic SaaS business grow
Eric Sanschagrin
Consulting How to use IoT and data to transform the economics of a sport
Robin Hutchinson
Back Industries
Careers
Careers
We bring together extraordinary people, like you, to build a better working world.
Explore
What you can do here
What it's like to work here
How to join us
Alumni
Job search
Spotlight
Experienced professionals
EY-Parthenon careers
Student and entry level programs
Talent community
Back Careers
About us
About us
At EY, our purpose is building a better working world. The insights and services we provide help to create long-term value for clients, people and society, and to build trust in the capital markets.
Explore
Our purpose
Our values
Our people
Performance and impact
Newsroom
Locations
Connect with us
Spotlight
EY is now carbon negative
Carmine Di Sibio
How do you move long-term value creation from ambition to action?
Carmine Di Sibio
Back About us
Search
Open search
Close search
My EY
My EY
Open country language switcher
Close country language switcher
Select your location
Close country language switcher
No search results have been found
Local sites
Welcome to EY Global (EN)
You are visiting EY Global (EN)
Sustainable Finance
EY professionals help financial services companies define sustainability goals so they can create more value, make a measurable difference and accelerate the transition to a fair and sustainable future. The teams support clients to manage regulatory impacts and mitigate climate change by incorporating environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into decision-making.
Related topics
Banking and capital markets
Wealth and asset management
Insurance
Sustainability
COP
The team
Gill Lofts
EY Global Financial Services Sustainable Finance Leader
Brandon Sutcliffe
EY Americas Financial Services Sustainable Finance Leader
Judy Li
Partner, Sustainability Services, Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP; EY Greater China ESG Management Office Head; EY Asia-Pacific Sustainability Leader, Financial Services
View all
What EY can do for you
Our EY teams can help your firm contribute to sustainable and inclusive growth, manage regulatory impacts and mitigate climate change by incorporating ESG factors into decision-making.
EY’s climate change and sustainability practices have over 1,400 advisors across the globe. Clients benefit from EY regulatory horizon scanning tools, benchmarking analysis and leading-edge thought leadership.
Value-led sustainability
Shifting sustainability from a reporting-led conversation to a value-based narrative, engaging with the C-suite to turn sustainability into a business opportunity and helping companies create and protect value.
Sustainability report and strategy alignment – assist you with your ESG strategy framework and path to becoming an ESG leader. This includes bringing your purpose to life, creating a vision and developing a roadmap to achieve your sustainable finance goals.
Long-term value strategy – assist to identify where and how you differentiate through sustainability and long-term value creation. EY teams integrate sustainability into how your teams make decisions and help align your business functions with a common ESG strategy.
Market scan and benchmarking – co-create benchmarking criteria with you and your stakeholders, conduct research to assess your company against the framework, and turn findings into analysis that shows where you stand with your peers.
Product development – develop your ESG product strategy and conduct an assessment of existing products to facilitate they meet sustainability criteria.
Accelerate my transition
Supporting clients to accelerate their net-zero transition journey and helping them execute change projects in their organizations.
Net-zero commitments – integrating your net-zero ambition throughout your business so that your business is accountable to these goals – creating value from your long-term, low-carbon position.
Integration of climate risk into ERM – support your climate risk assessment and strategic planning by incorporating your climate risk data into your data models and aligning your climate and ESG disclosures to create a sustainable and repeatable process.
Stress testing and scenario modelling – test scenarios against your business model to facilitate your plans are calibrated at the appropriate intensity and in line with regulatory expectations.
European Union (EU) action plan – assess the impacts of the EU Action Plan on your business, performing detailed gap analyses and devising and implementing solutions for your business.
Tax – recognize that governments around the world are increasingly using tax policy to address climate change and achieve their environmental targets. These policies include tax credits and incentives, as well as carbon pricing regimes. EY professionals encourage companies to stay informed about current and future policy changes. We can also advise on tax incentives to use for greening company operations and help manage new carbon taxes while firms reduce their carbon footprints.  Additionally, EY professionals work with companies to reduce risk by helping them to meet compliance and reporting requirements are met.
Data & technology – understand what data is most important to help define a process that is focused on providing high quality data outputs within a customized and fully integrated ESG data model.
Closing the ESG gap
Evaluating the strategic and business value of improving ESG ratings, whether it is improved access to capital or increased investor confidence. Activating a roadmap and working with wider stakeholders to accelerate key components of EY client’s ESG strategy.
Sustainability reporting – identify your ESG reporting requirements and streamline your reporting process through an integrated reporting framework.
Task force on climate-related financial disclosures (TCFD) – provide guidance as to whether your climate risk reporting is consistent with the recommendations of TCFD and help implement changes required to improve your disclosures.
Green bonds – help certify green bonds against the Green Bond Principals and/or the Climate Bonds standard, of which the EY organization is an approved verifier. EY teams can conduct assurance services both before and after the issuance of a green bond and verify the reporting associated with the impacts of projected “green attributes” on a periodic basis.
Role of finance function – work with your finance function to develop their sustainability strategy. This can be achieved by creating, measuring, and communicating long-term value and drawing a connection between non-financial and financing reporting to help manage long-term risks.
Enterprise-wide training – train your team on sustainable finance, from board-level to all employees, across different business functions.
Stewardship – evolve your ESG stewardship to attract long-term investors and secure stakeholder support.
How can sustainable finance turn a moment in time into action that lasts?
Watch what EY and industry leaders have to say about the role of the financial industry and the need to create a more sustainable working world.
The team
Show more
Previous
Next
Our latest thinking
Show more
Previous
Next
Contact us
Like what you’ve seen? Get in touch to learn more.
email
Connect with us
Our locations
My EY
Site map
Legal and privacy
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients.
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
YouTube
EY | Assurance | Consulting | Strategy and Transactions | Tax
About EY
EY is a global leader in assurance, consulting, strategy and transactions, and tax services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities.
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com.
© EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved.
EYG/OC/FEA no.
ED MMYY
This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice.
How can we help?
Sticky Bar Close button
Contact the EY Financial Services team
Contact us
Sticky Bar Close button
!{StickyBar-Expand-btn}
Welcome to EY.com
In addition to cookies that are strictly necessary to operate this website, we use the following types of cookies to improve your experience and our services: Functional cookies to enhance your experience (e.g. remember settings), and Performance cookies to measure the website's performance and improve your experience., and Marketing/Targeting cookies, which are set by third parties with whom we execute marketing campaigns and allow us to provide you with content relevant to you.
We have detected that Do Not Track/Global Privacy Control is enabled in your browser; as a result, Marketing/Targeting cookies, which are set by third parties with whom we execute marketing campaigns and allow us to provide you with content relevant to you, are automatically disabled.
You may withdraw your consent to cookies at any time once you have entered the website through a link in the privacy policy, which you can find at the bottom of each page on the website.
Review our cookie policy for more information.
Customize cookies
I decline optional cookies
I accept all cookies