Our approach to sustainable finance | Barclays
-
Sustainability
ESG Resource Hub
Our approach to sustainable finance
With a key focus on the impact of our financing, we are continuing to grow our product offering and social and environmental financing activity across the bank.
As a global financial institution, the way we prioritise and mobilise financial resources and the manner in which we do business ensures we can help to shape a cleaner, fairer future, which leaves no one behind.
For businesses and institutions
CIB
For individuals
Private Bank
Firm-wide initiatives
Intiatives
For businesses and institutions
Corporate and Investment Bank
Solving Sustainable
We’re providing the latest insights to help solve sustainable, together to help businesses and markets seek new and innovative ways to achieve net zero.
Sustainable Green Solutions
A wide range of flexible financing and deposits to support your company's green agenda.
Barclays Research Impact Series
This series of in-depth reports from the Barclays’ Research team which explores the social impact of economic, demographic and disruptive changes affecting markets, sectors and society at large.
Treasury
Barclays Sustainable Impact Capital Programme
Investing equity capital in sustainability-focused start-ups by 2025, helping to accelerate our clients’ transition towards a low-carbon economy.
Barclays Green Bonds
We want to help ensure that our customers and clients have access to financing that places green principles at its core.
Business Banking
Barclays Green Loans
Barclays' Green Loans can help to future-proof your business with financing that places green principles at its core, helping you to invest in a sustainable, low-carbon future.
For individuals
Private Bank
Discretionary Portfolio Management
Our discretionary portfolio management service professionally invests on your behalf to manage long term portfolios to meet objectives and providing clear performance updates and reports.
Investing for Global Impact
Providing unique insights into the attitudes, motivations, experiences and actions of some of the world’s leading individual investors, family offices and foundations.
Barclays UK
Sustainable, ESG and Impact investing
Barclays' approach to Sustainable, ESG and Impact investing.
Barclays Green Mortgages
Details on our new Green Mortgages. We will reward buyers with a lower mortgage rate on certain deals when buying an energy efficient home.
Barclays Green Buy-To-Let Mortgages
Details on our new Green Buy-to-Let Mortgages. We will reward buyers with a lower mortgage rate on certain deals when buying an energy efficient home.
Firm-wide initiatives
Social Innovation Facility (SIF)
An internal mechanism which incubates colleague ideas for financial products and services that seek to specifically address environmental or social challenges.
Barclays Rise
Rise, created by Barclays, is the Home of FinTech. We bring together the worlds top innovators to create the future of financial services.
Barclays Accelerator
The Barclays Accelerator, powered by Techstars is a unique programme designed to take your business further. We're FinTech-focused and overflowing with opportunities
Eagle Labs
We incubate, inspire and educate ambitious UK founders and startups and help them to succeed and scale.
Barclays Black Founder's Accelerator
A programme especially designed to champion diversity in entrepreneurship and showcase Black Founder-led businesses.
Female Innovators Lab
Barclays and Anthemis are committed to bringing more women into entrepreneurship and closing the fundraising gender gap.
Unreasonable Impact
Unreasonable Impact is supporting growth-stage entrepreneurs whose ventures have the potential to employ thousands of people worldwide while solving some of the most world’s most pressing social and environmental challenges.
£500m investment in climate-tech
Through our Sustainable Impact Capital portfolio, we aim to fill growth stage funding gaps to help accelerate and scale catalytic and strategic solutions to environmental challenges, with an enhanced focus on decarbonisation technologies that are enabling transition within carbon intensive sectors.
Our Sustainable Impact Capital portfolio has a mandate to invest £500m of equity capital in climate-tech start-ups between 2020 and 2027, helping to accelerate the transition towards a low-carbon economy.
Since launch in 2020, our investments have supported many aspects of climate-tech innovation, from property retrofit solutions to long-duration energy storage and hydrogen technologies.
The investment mandate was increased from £175m to £500m in December 2022, reflecting the success to date.
Find out more
$1trn Sustainable and Transition Financing
We surpassed our 2018 target to deliver £150bn of social and environmental financing by 2025 and we are on track to meet our target to deliver £100bn of green finance well ahead of our 2030 target date.
As a result, and after a strategic review of the bank’s capabilities, market demand and growth opportunities, Barclays has a new target to facilitate $1trn of Sustainable and Transition Financing between 2023 and the end of 2030.
Financing of climate and environmental solutions including green mortgages, energy efficient technology and renewable energy, as well as financing for broader social and sustainability work, including sustainability-linked structures and areas such as affordable housing, will all count towards the target.
Our Sustainable Finance Framework (PDF 458KB)
Find out more
How our sustainable financing supports the Sustainable Development Goals
Barclays recognises the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a set of shared global priorities adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The SDGs consist of 17 interconnected Goals, which are underpinned by 169 targets. These span positive human, societal and environmental factors, and are sought to be reached through multilateral collaboration. We believe it is important for business, governments, society and other stakeholders to work together to successfully achieve the 2030 Agenda. Barclays is pleased to play its part, work in partnership with our stakeholders to support the delivery of the SDGs.
Since 2019, we have tracked and reported our annual contribution to the SDGs, through our financing activities. An illustrative breakdown of our social and environmental financing is provided below. Our financing covers supranational and regional development agencies, as well as businesses making positive social and environmental contributions. It generates positive social and environmental impact through financing of healthcare systems, universities, social housing, green infrastructure projects, sustainable food and agriculture, sustainable water and renewable energy. Financing of these activities in turn supports progress towards achieving the SDGs.
For a full list of eligible social and environmental activities see the Barclays Sustainable Finance Framework (Framework), which sets out our methodology for tracking progress against our sustainable finance commitments. The Framework shows how eligible social and environmental activities contribute to individual SDGs, supported through an analysis of underlying SDG targets. As we evolve our understanding of how our financing contributes to the SDGs, we will refine our methodology accordingly.
Beyond our financing activities, our community programmes contribute to Goal 8 – decent work and economic growth. For more information, see the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2021.
Another way in which we contribute to the SDGs is through our work implementing the UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB). In 2020, we conducted a pilot assessment using the UNEP FI Portfolio Impact Analysis Tool for Banks to identify our most significant social and environmental impact areas, including how they link to the SDGs. Building on this analysis, we continued to analyse significant potential positive and negative impacts of our business in 2021. Barclays has set targets in line with some of our significant impact areas to drive alignment with the goals of the Paris Agreement and to contribute to the SDGs. For more information, see the Barclays PLC PRB disclosure 2021 (PDF 362KB)
Important information