ESG Institute - Structured Finance Association
Menu
SFA on the IssuesBackOverviewCommittees and Task ForcesCOVID-19: Supporting Consumers & BusinessesCapital & Other Bank RegulationsDisclosure & ReportingESG InstituteGlobal InitiativesHousing FinanceLIBOR TransitionMarket Structure & DynamicsResearch CornerStructured Finance in the CourtsAbout SecuritizationNewsBackOverviewPress ReleasesIndustry NewsSFA NewsNewsletter Sign UpEventsDiversity, Equity, and Inclusion HubWomen in SecuritizationStructured Finance CoalitionStructured Finance FoundationAbout UsBackOverviewBoard of DirectorsOur TeamOur MembersCommittees and Task Forces
Join Membership
About Membership
Join
Blog
Multimedia Library
Make a Payment
Careers
Search for:
ESG Institute
$11.6 trillion – or $1 of every $4 invested in the United States – was invested under ESG investment strategies.
Overview
Publications
Learn More
News
Get Involved
SFA Provides Recommendations to SEC on Proposed Climate-Related Disclosures
SFA Provides Recommendations to SEC on Proposed Corporate Climate-Related Disclosures, Calls for Tailored ABS Disclosure
Learn More
SFA Sends Letter to GSEs on Social Index
SFA sends letter to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on their joint Social Index for single-family MBS commending them for their work while noting the areas where investors seek additional granularity and transparency.
View Here
SFA ESG Institute Webinar: Existing ESG Frameworks and Potential Application to SF Market
SFA hosted a webinar introducing and reviewing the 12 ESG frameworks most widely accepted at the corporate level in a broad range of industries.
Watch Here
SFA and its Members are Developing an ESG Framework and Reporting Standards specific to Structured Finance
__
This year SFA welcomed members to the ESG Disclosures Taskforce. The members represent every role in securitization—issuers, investors, servicers, data services—to consider the environmental, social and governance impacts that are material and relevant to structured finance.
To participate in this important and timely work, please use the ‘Join Today’ button on the right of the screen.
Publications
Climate Risk Under Federal Reserve Mandate
October 5, 2021
During SFVegas 2021, SFA’s CEO Michael Bright and Federal Reserve Vice Chair Randy Quarles discuss how to think about climate risk considering the Federal Reserve’s overall mandate.
Where is the Administration and Regulators Heading With ESG
October 4, 2021
Watch Darlene Rosenkoetter, Vice President, Global Head of Government Affairs and Public Policy, from S&P Global Ratings provide an update at SFVegas 2021 on where the administration and regulators are heading with ESG.
Climate Risk in Securitization
October 4, 2021
Neil Hohmann, Managing Director and Head of Structured Products from BBH Investment Management, discusses assessing the different types of climate risk in securitization. John D’Elisa, Director, Societe Generale touches on defining what ESG means for issuers and investors.
Bright Ideas: ESG Investing in Structured Finance – How Do We Do It And What Data Do We Need?
March 23, 2021
Michael Bright is joined by SFA President Kristi Leo and dv01’s Perry Rahbar and Charlie Oshman. They discuss what Environmental, Social, and Governance Investing (ESG) is, why it’s taking the finance market by storm, and what data is needed for ESG.
SFA Publishes ESG Survey Results
November 20, 2020
Growing ESG in securitization: 81% of issuers incorporate ESG in their overall business operations, 73% within asset origination/underwriting practices, and 56% sponsoring or developing ESG-focused ABS/MBS programs. “Client Demand” is #1 factor motivating ESG for Institutional Investors in securitization. View the results and takeaways of SFA ESG Engagement survey.
View All
Learn More
Background
SFA ESG Symposium Key Takeaways
Did you know?
Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance, or ESG, investing has now hit the mainstream as a consideration – and increasingly a key driver – of investment approaches and analysis for individuals and institutions alike. ESG investing has its roots in what began as ‘socially responsible’ investing in the 1960s, when investors began to screen their investment opportunities based on industry involvement such as tobacco production and sales or a company’s dealings in South Africa with respect to the apartheid regime. Today, there is broad acceptance and interest in ESG investing with the existence of targeted mutual funds, indices, and there is also a growing focus on data availability and analysis by ratings agencies and analytics firms.
ESG FACTORS
Environmental
Climate change
Natural resources
Sustainability
Social
Diversity
Human rights
Consumer protections
Governance
Corporate governance
Corporate behavior
Compensation structure
The above categories are high level and only scratch the surface of the ESG-relevant activities that investors – and issuers – may choose to focus on.
For our part, the Structured Finance Association has very recently launched an effort to assess how ESG investing and reporting can be applied and accessed in the securitization market. As a jumping off point the Association has begun work on identifying a framework for reporting on ESG factors within the assets of ABCP vehicles at the conduit level.
On December 5, 2019, SFA held an ESG Symposium that brought together nearly 200 engaged participants for a day-long conversation to promote ESG principles within the structured finance market.
SFA has published Key Takeaways from the Symposium which can be downloaded via the link below. Additionally, some of the slides that were presented by our guest speakers are available below.
SFA ESG Symposium: Key Takeaways
Below please find slides from some of the presenters:
ESG Investing through Indices (Reid Steadman, Managing Director, Global Head of ESG – S&P Dow Jones Indices)
ESG and Sustainable Finance: Are we there yet? (Libby Bernick, Head of Sustainability – DBRS Morningstar)
Moody’s ESG Framework (Swami Venkataraman, Senior Vice-President – Moody’s)
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Risk Scoring for Structured Finance (Marjan van der Weijden, Global Head of Structured Finance – Fitch Ratings)
ESG Credit Factors in Structured Finance (Matt Mitchell, Director, Structured Finance – S&P Global Ratings), these slides are derived from this report “Environmental, Social, and Governance: ESG Credit Factors in Structured Finance”
The symposium encouraged important dialogue among a broad range of market participants and SFA looks forward to hosting additional ESG events in the future.
If you’re interested in joining SFA’s ESG Task Force, please email Jeff Gudiel at [email protected]
According to Harvard Business Review, over $11.6 trillion of all professionally managed assets – $1 of every $4 invested in the United States – were under ESG investment strategies, a sharp 390% increase from 2010 when the amount was close to $3 trillion overall.
ESG is such an important consideration that major stock exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange have introduced their own sustainability guidelines, such as the Principles for Responsible Investment.
“ESG issues that have financial implications are increasingly part of business decisions, and investors who embrace these changes will be the industry leaders of the future. SFA is helping to define these issues and create the right frameworks that will make ESG data more transparent for investors.”
- Libby Bernick
Head of Sustainability, DBRS Morningstar
News
Industry News
Chair Powell Addresses Fed’s Stance on Climate Policy
January 13, 2023
At the Symposium on Central Bank Independence, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell emphasized his stance that climate change is not in the direct purview of the Fed’s responsibilities and will tread lightly when developing bank guidelines related to climate.
SFA News
SFA Submits Letter to GSEs in Response to Their Proposed Single-Family Social Index
January 13, 2023
On January 5, 2023, on behalf of our investor members SFA submitted a letter to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the GSEs) in response to their proposed single-family Social Index.
Industry News
Federal Reserve Proposes Plan to Address Climate Risks for Banks
December 9, 2022
On December 2, the Federal Reserve Board (Fed) proposed new principles for how banking institutions should manage climate-related financial risks. The proposed principles would apply to banking organizations with more than $100 billion in total assets and are aimed at tackling both the physical risks and transition risks associated with climate change.
View All
Contact
Kristi Leo
President
Kristi.Leo@structuredfinance.org
Alyssa Acevedo
Vice President, Policy Development
Alyssa.Acevedo@structuredfinance.org
Elen Callahan
Managing Director, Head of Research
Elen.Callahan@structuredfinance.org
Add Your Voice
Join an SFA Committee or Task Force
Join Today
Resources
Membership
Make a Payment
Join
Newsletter Sign Up
About Securitization
Careers
Contact Us
SFA on the Issues
About Securitization
News
Events
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Hub
Women in Securitization
Structured Finance Coalition
Structured Finance Foundation
About Us
Search for:
Structured Finance Association
1776 I Street NW Suite 501
Washington, DC 20006
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Cookie SettingsAccept AllManage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT