The ESG Financing Revolution Is On: How Entrepreneurs Can Ride The WaveSubscribe Sign InBETAThis is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by clicking hereMore From ForbesJan 13, 2023,10:00am ESTImplementing Data Engineering Best PracticesJan 13, 2023,09:45am ESTElectrifying All Vehicles: A Guide To Maximizing Market Potential Through Supplier/OEM PartnershipsJan 13, 2023,09:30am ESTFive Ways To Build A Caring Culture In Your OrganizationJan 13, 2023,09:15am ESTGet The 411 On Misinformation, Disinformation And MalinformationJan 13, 2023,09:00am ESTManaging A Customer Crisis: Three Critical Steps To Help You Move ForwardJan 13, 2023,08:45am ESTSurviving Crisis: What Brands Need To Know In A RecessionJan 13, 2023,08:30am ESTHow To Win The Subscription Game With Lasting Perceived ValueJan 13, 2023,08:15am ESTHow To Improve Your Last-Mile Delivery ExperienceEdit StoryForbesSmall BusinessThe ESG Financing Revolution Is On: How Entrepreneurs Can Ride The WaveThomas SpanglerForbes Councils MemberForbes Business CouncilCOUNCIL POSTExpertise from Forbes Councils members, operated under license. Opinions expressed are those of the author.| Membership (fee-based)Dec 15, 2021,07:00am EST|Share to FacebookShare to TwitterShare to LinkedinTom is co-founder and executive chairman at CleanBay Renewables, as well as an entrepreneur, startup investor and Principal at Velos.
getty
According to the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance, funding for green projects more than doubled in the U.S. over the past five years. Mainstream portfolio managers increasingly feel pressure to identify and fund worthy environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) investments. However, they find themselves behind the trend as strategic corporate and private individuals now lead the sustainability charge.
Sustainability practices are easier to implement than most people think. As entrepreneurs, the focus is typically on building a great product or service for customers, period. However, customers are now “piercing the veil” to ensure that sustainable practices and materials are incorporated. For example, foodservice startups choose to source plates and bowls from regenerative grass fiber materials, or commercial space companies build water-based propulsion systems for satellites eliminating the need for hazardous fuels. There is no one-size-fits-all approach, and what may seem like a baby step toward sustainability could be the make-or-break difference for a potential customer or investor.
Ten years ago, investors were just beginning to wake up to the potential of the ESG market. Climate change concerns were becoming mainstream, especially in the years leading up to the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. However, private equity markets were still stuck in structures from the past, making it difficult to secure funding for climate-adaptive infrastructure projects and companies. For example, when my company began sourcing for institutional capital in 2017, we worked with infrastructure funds more accustomed to financing utility, fossil energy and waste management facilities. There was also a hangover from the failure of many “clean tech” funds during the early 2000s. For all of these reasons, ESG was a hard sell. But it wouldn’t remain that way.
As traditional funds grappled with what was next, strategic corporate investors surged ahead as leaders in ESG investments. Shareholders began to demand more sustainable companies, customers increasingly noted the influence of environmental profiles on buying habits, and governments at all levels started to strengthen laws and regulations. As a result, corporations began to seek more ESG investments to build their sustainability strategy. The energy industry is a prime case study in this ongoing shift.
MORE FROMFORBES ADVISORBest Tax Software Of 2022Best Tax Software For The Self-Employed Of 2022Income Tax Calculator: Estimate Your Taxes
Earlier this year, Exxon Mobil shareholders sent a clear signal about the need to transition from fossil fuels. Activist shareholders (paywall) succeeded in electing three new board members who have stated they will change the company’s focus to cleaner energy. This would have been unheard of a decade ago but is commonplace today. Similar stories have played out in boardrooms at many other large energy companies. There is also a clean-energy imperative for utilities nationwide as regulators demand an energy transition away from carbon-emitting sources. The natural result is a greater corporate investment in technologies and projects to build a more sustainable future.
In the past two years, there has been a significant increase in new ESG investors. During my time speaking at conferences, it has become clear that there are many high-net-worth investors who want better access to sustainable investment options. And most important, we are seeing solid returns on these investments. A report from earlier this year showed that “sustainable funds outperformed conventional funds and indexes, on average, last year (2020).” The markets have finally found their footing, and there is a very high ceiling for green investment.
The rise of millennial leaders in the investment community also plays a significant role in the growth of ESG investment. One recent report notes that “87% of high-net-worth millennials considered a company’s ESG track record an important consideration in their decision about whether to invest in it or not, while another found that 90% of millennials wanted to tailor their investments to their values.” As this generation increasingly enters management roles at corporations and within investment funds, their influence pushes organizations further toward sustainability. However, there are a few changes we need to see in order for investors to participate in lucrative ESG investment opportunities.
Traditional institutional investors need to recalibrate their underwriting processes. In order to expand investments, funds must be willing to dig deeper into government regulations and corporate ESG practices to make regulatory risk assessments — something that is not necessarily a significant factor for traditional oil and gas or infrastructure deals. Further, adding carbon modeling and carbon pricing as core internal functions within investment funds would enable investments that on the surface appear too risky, thereby facilitating additional deal flow. What it boils down to is that dynamic deal structures that change over time and adjust with capital risks need to become the norm. Climate technologies and climate solutions are currently, and will remain, in a fast evolution for some time to come, and investment funds need to dynamically keep pace.
I have heard it said that before you can have a revolution, you must have an evolution. The past 10 years in this market have been that evolution to sustainable investing. Even the stodgiest investment funds now have an ESG target to hit, and sustainable planning in corporations is now expected. The revolution is now on, and I believe that well-organized entrepreneurial solutions seeking to catch this wave will reap the rewards.
Forbes Business Council is the foremost growth and networking organization for business owners and leaders. Do I qualify?
Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. Thomas SpanglerEditorial StandardsPrintReprints & Permissions