How Sustainable Finance Is Shifting the Future of Investing
Log in
Log error
View Profile
Edit Profile
Manage Subscriptions
My Saved Content
Logout
Industries
Industries
Aerospace and Defense
Automotive Industry
Consumer Products Industry
Education
Energy
Financial Institutions
Health Care Industry
Industrial Goods
Insurance Industry
Principal Investors and Private Equity
Public Sector
Retail Industry
Technology, Media, and Telecommunications
Transportation and Logistics
Travel and Tourism
Capabilities
Capabilities
Business and Organizational Purpose
Business Transformation
Climate Change and Sustainability
Corporate Finance and Strategy
Customer Insights
Digital, Technology, and Data
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Innovation Strategy and Delivery
International Business
Manufacturing
Marketing and Sales
M&A, Transactions, and PMI
Operations
Organization Strategy
People Strategy
Pricing and Revenue Management
Risk Management and Compliance
Social Impact
Zero-Based Budgeting
BCG X
Featured Insights
Featured Insights
Explore Our Featured Insights
Artificial Intelligence
Climate Change and Sustainability
BCG Executive Perspectives
The CEO’s Dilemma: Business Resilience in a Time of Uncertainty
Inflation
Podcasts by BCG
Future of Work
TED@BCG
BCG Henderson Institute
Careers
Alumni
About
About
About Overview
Our People and Culture
Corporate Newsroom
Our Leadership
Our Commitments
Our History
Offices
Featured Content
BCG’s New Tech Build and Design Unit
BCG X disrupts the present and creates the future by building bold new tech products, services, and businesses.
Digital Transformation
Taking a bionic approach to digital transformation can lead to successful business outcomes.
The CEO’s Dilemma: Business Resilience in a Time of Uncertainty
Leaders face an uncertain landscape. No matter their starting point, BCG can help.
Contact Us
© 2023 Boston Consulting Group
Privacy
Terms of Use
Subscribe
Search
Sustainable Investing and Finance
Climate Change and Sustainability
A growing number of large institutional investors today are incorporating ESG metrics into their capital allocation and stewardship criteria. This shift toward sustainable finance—which has evolved beyond socially responsible investing to include asset management and ownership—has profound implications for investors and companies alike.
Some of the largest and most influential institutional investors and asset managers are at the forefront of a powerful movement to add environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) standards to their criteria for capital allocation. As long-term stewards of capital, they recognize a mandate to consider whether the companies they own today will maintain a strong connection both with their customers and extended communities as environmental and social challenges increasingly impact the way we live and work. They also recognize that companies that commit to addressing these urgent issues stand to realize greater business opportunities in the future—and thus will achieve higher returns for their long-term shareholders.
It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
Sustainable Finance Poses Risks and Promises Opportunities
The climate transition will yield both winners and losers; to thrive, businesses need a clear equity story and impact thesis as they decarbonize and invest.
Institutional investors that are best poised for the future are those that actively engage with companies through the “power of purpose” instead of simply liquidating their shares and walking away from positions they perceive as questionable in the new climate. Such investors are far better placed to push their holdings in the direction of long-term sustainability through such measures as voting proxies and shareholder resolutions—or by initiating open dialogue with company leaders. Private sector companies and investors that follow this strategy can carve out a far more active role for themselves in the quest for diversity, environmental sustainability, and other important societal goals. Two trending developments are motivating large investors to embrace sustainable finance and to engage directly with corporate executives and boards: The ubiquity of information about corporate practices. This availability is shining a light on the roles that companies play in shaping the environment and making clear the pivotal role that the private sector will play in finding solutions—or not—to problems such as climate change. Much if not most innovation today occurs within the context of companies, whether startups or incumbents, adopting policies that deliver a positive impact. This is likely to remain the case.The mounting evidence that addressing ESG issues does not hurt financial performance. In fact, companies that are proactive on issues such as diversity, climate stabilization, and consumer responsiveness can deliver substantial financial rewards.No Longer a Niche Practice
To guard against exposure to such events, investors understand that they can no longer treat sustainable financing as a niche practice. Asset managers, too, are increasingly shifting from policies that seek to avoid risk by excluding specific securities, in favor of strategies aimed at benefiting from companies that perform better on TSI issues. Examples include best-in-class and thematic investing; impact investments, such as low-carbon indices and green bonds; and seeking out companies that score well on gender diversity.
As of 2018, $30.7 trillion was being professionally managed globally under responsible investment strategies ranging from negative/exclusionary screening to corporate engagement…
…an increase of 34% in just two years, according to the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance’s annual review.
These are still early days, however. Soon, we are likely to see sustainable financing morph into a more integrated, intentional approach. Investors will apply ESG integration and best-in-class analysis across all categories of assets in order to enhance their risk and return performance. Active ownership, too, will become an integrated model, with investors routinely engaging with boards and CEOs on companies’ efforts to increase diversity and address their environmental performance, just as they do now on executive compensation, corporate governance, and shareholder rights. Norms and negative screening will be used to inform engagement, not trigger exclusion. Driving these developments is the increasingly critical role that private sector companies will play in addressing climate change, diversity, and other important societal issues—with large investors pushing them along this positive path. However, translating this investment strategy into tangible financial results for shareholders, both in the short and long term, requires insights into the steps that companies must take to heighten the impact and sustainability of their business models.
Our Client Work in Sustainable Investing and Finance
Humanitarian and resilience investments (HRIs) continue to increase, however, scaling them to impact is complex and requires cross-sector collaboration, innovation, and support. BCG partnered with WEF to uncover the current challenges hampering HRI market expansion and offer strategies to overcome them.
It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
Share
Banks Can Bet Big on Social Impact
Financial institutions that lead on social tend to outperform. But there is no “net zero” for social—and banks are struggling to seize the opportunity.
Better Climate Financing Depends on Better Data
A new report by The Rockefeller Foundation and Boston Consulting Group finds that without standardized taxonomies, it can be difficult—if not impossible—for catalytic investors to trace financing flows and pinpoint gaps that they can meaningfully target.
Private Equity Should Take the Lead in Sustainability, Here’s How
Private equity is under increasing pressure to integrate ESG into investment strategies. That is a huge opportunity for the industry—and for society. In a recent issue of Harvard Business Review, BCG experts examine how PE firms can lead the way in sustainable investing.
How Private Equity Can Create Value Through Purpose
The industry holds clear advantages for making the businesses it invests in more environmentally and socially sustainable. Interviews with leading players point to five priorities.
Directors Can Up Their Game on Environmental, Social, and Governance Issues
Board members at companies across geographies and industries understand that competitive advantage increasingly demands sustainability. And that is rapidly pushing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues higher on board agendas.
It’s Time for Institutional Investors to Embrace the S in ESG
Institutional investors were late to realize the alpha potential of clean tech and other environmental investments. They should avoid making the same mistake with social impact.
How Private Equity Can Converge on ESG Data
Some of the industry’s top general and limited partners are working toward a standard set of metrics for tracking their portfolio companies’ ESG progress.
How Asset Owners Can Go from Net Zero to Climate Leadership
This playbook shows how investors can work toward a carbon-neutral global economy while aiming for high financial returns.
Our Insights on Sustainable Investing and Finance
It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
What Gets Measured Gets Financed
BCG's Veronica Chau joins Maria Kozloski of the Rockefeller Foundation to discuss climate finance and the work that remains to ensure that governments, investors, and companies are making the greatest possible impact.
It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
How EQT Puts Purpose Into Practice in Private Equity
CEO Christian Sinding Discusses ESG’s Importance to His Company and the Industry.
It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
Benchmarking ESG Data in Private Equity
BCG's Tawfik Hammoud and Megan Starr, Global Head of Impact at The Carlyle Group, discuss the first private-market benchmark for ESG data—a game-changer for the industry and for sustainable finance overall.
It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
A Tectonic Shift of Capital Is Just Beginning
The chairman and CEO of BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, explains how the climate crisis is fundamentally reshaping his firm’s approach to investing.
Meet Some of BCG’s Experts in Sustainable Finance
BCG's consultants and industry experts focusing on socially responsible investing continue to partner with leading investors, asset managers, and private sector companies to support sustainable investment practices. These are some of our experts on this topic.
Douglas Beal
Partner & Director, Sustainable Investing & Social Impact
New York
Veronica Chau
Partner & Director, Sustainable Investing & Social Impact
Toronto
Roy Choudhury
Managing Director & Partner
New York
Jesper Nielsen
Managing Director & Senior Partner
London
Explore Related Services
Principal Investors and Private Equity
Corporate Finance and Strategy
Social Impact
protected by reCaptcha
Subscribe to our Social Impact E-Alert.
Subscribe
Subscribed
Click to Manage Your Subscriptions.
Follow Us
Global | EN
Global | EN
Angola | EN
Argentina | EN
Australia | EN
Austria | DE
Belgium | EN
Brazil | EN
Brazil | PT
Canada | EN
Canada | FR
Chile | EN
China (Greater China) | EN
China (Greater China) | ZH
Colombia | EN
Croatia | EN
Czech Republic | EN
Denmark | EN
Finland | EN
France | FR
Germany | DE
Greece | EN
Hungary | EN
India | EN
Indonesia | EN
Israel | EN
Italy | IT
Japan | JA
Malaysia | EN
Mexico | EN
Morocco | EN
Netherlands | EN
New Zealand | EN
Norway | EN
Peru | EN
Poland | PL
Portugal | EN
Qatar | EN
Romania | EN
Saudi Arabia | EN
Serbia | EN
Singapore | EN
Slovenia | EN
South Africa | EN
South Korea | EN
Spain | EN
Sweden | EN
Switzerland | EN
Thailand | EN
Turkey | EN
United Arab Emirates | EN
United Kingdom | EN
United States | EN
Vietnam | EN
© 2023 Boston Consulting Group
Careers
Contact
Subscribe
Alumni
About
Offices
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
Responsible Disclosure
Boston Consulting Group is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity / expression, national origin, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under federal, state or local law, where applicable, and those with criminal histories will be considered in a manner consistent with applicable state and local laws.Pursuant to Transparency in Coverage final rules (85 FR 72158) set forth in the United States by The Departments of the Treasury, Labor, and Health and Human Services click here to access required Machine Readable Files or here to access the Federal No Surprises Bill Act Disclosure.
Climate Change and Sustainability
Sustainable Investing and Finance
SUBSCRIBE
Log in
Log error
View Profile
Edit Profile
Manage Subscriptions
My Saved Content
Logout