Gender, Diversity and Global Justice - Utrecht University
Skip to main content
Menu
Search uu.nl
Search scope
Subject
Staff member
SearchSelect language
Nederlands nl
Breadcrumb UU.nl
Research
Gender, Diversity and Global Justice
How can we achieve societal inclusion and change?
Gender, Diversity and Global JusticeGender, Diversity and Global Justice
Gender, Diversity and Global Justice
About Research Collaborate Gender, Diversity and COVID-19 News and events Contact
UU home
What can organisations do to enhance the diversity, including the position of women and other under-represented groups, in their organization? How do we combat the discrimination and devaluation of minority groups? Researchers join forces with societal partners to solve complex gender and diversity issues, as well as to develop strategies for implementing diversity in order to achieve societal inclusion and change. The Gender, Diversity and Global Justice is part of research expertise area Institutions for Open Societies.Why is inclusion important?Research has demonstrated that building a society that is inclusive for all genders, ethnicities and other group dimensions alike, is crucial from a fundamental rights and individual fairness perspective, from a societal perspective and an economic perspective.
Manifesto for the establishment of the Dutch Emancipation Authority legal assurance for equality and equal opportunities
Gender gaps in part-time / full-time work
A problem we can only solve together
Read more about the project
A platform for scientific excellence and societal impact at Utrecht University
Open to new collaborations
The need for an intersectional intervention in the COVID-19 Crisis
Gender, diversity and the coronavirus crisis
Read our blogs
News
Jesper Verhoef is the new ‘Researcher-in-Residence’ at the KB with research on LGBTQI+ websites News 21 November 2022 For six months, Jesper Verhoef will research the crucial role the web plays in the lives of LGBTQI+ communities. He will use KB’s unique but largely unexplored web collection.
The protests in Iran: on the demonstrations that grew into a national revolt News 17 November 2022 Following the death of 22-year-old student Mahsa Amini, thousands of Iranians are taking to the streets every day. They are demonstrating for more freedom and equal rights.
Poetry as protest: Iranian poet spoke out for women’s self-determination 100 years ago News 11 November 2022 The socially critical poetry of Parvīn Iᶜtiṣāmī (1907-1941) is more relevant than ever. Postdoc researcher Zhinia Noorian explains why (video).
RSS
More news
Events ToepassenThere are currently no events pertaining to this department or theme.
RSS
More events
Footer menu (EN) Go to Choose a study Student information Research areas Jobs Giving Services Student portal Alumni information Intranet for employees Course planner My Timetable About UU Contact Directory Disclaimer ContactFollow us
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
LinkedIn
Instagram Utrecht UniversityHeidelberglaan 83584 CS UtrechtThe NetherlandsTel. +31 (0)30 253 35 50