Gender Equality | UN Global Compact
All
Participants
Search
Who We Are
The SDGs
Participation
Take Action
Engage Locally
Explore Our Library
About
News
Sign In
Contact Us
Empower women in the workplace,
marketplace and community
In this section
Social Sustainability
Poverty
Children
Inequality
Gender Equality
Target Gender Equality
UN Global Compact Panel Pledge
The UN Global Compact’s Call to Action to Accelerate Gender Equality in Africa
Human Rights
Indigenous Peoples
Labour and Decent Work
Anti-Racist Action for Business
Gender Equality
Tied to Principles:
1
Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.
More about Principle 1
2
Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
More about Principle 2
6
Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
More about Principle 6
Gender equality is a fundamental human right. Yet despite progress, women and girls around the world do not fully experience equal rights and their potential as economic, social and sustainable development change-agents remains untapped. It will currently take over 267 years to achieve equality in terms of women’s economic empowerment and participation.
Women are underrepresented across business. They receive unequal pay for equal work and they continue to be targets of physical and sexual abuse. Additionally, women-owned enterprises are economically disadvantaged and lack equal opportunity to compete for business opportunities. Women also face legal and other barriers that affect their opportunities at work and as entrepreneurs.
Empowering women and girls helps expand economic growth, promote social development and establish more stable and just societies. In fact, studies show that women and men participating equally in the economy could add a further US$28 trillion to global annual gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) underscore women’s empowerment as an important development objective, in and of itself, and highlight the relevance of gender equality to addressing a wide range of global challenges.
Our Work
The Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) are a set of Principles offering guidance to business on how to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and community. Established by UN Global Compact and UN Women in 2010, the WEPs are informed by international labour and human rights standards and grounded in the recognition that businesses have a stake in, and a responsibility for, gender equality and women’s empowerment. To date, over 6,000 companies have signed the WEPs CEO Statement of Support, committing to advancing gender equality at the highest level.
Grounded in the WEPs Principles, the WEPs Gender Gap Analysis Tool is an anonymous, free, user-friendly tool that over 4,000 companies have taken to identify strengths, gaps and opportunities to improve their performance on gender equality.
Target Gender Equality builds on and supports the objectives of the WEPs by helping companies set and meet ambitious targets for women’s representation and leadership in business – a key component of the WEPs. Now in its second year, Target Gender Equality has over 800 companies across 40 countries working to strengthen their contribution to Sustainable Development Goal 5.5, which calls for equal women representation, participation and leadership in business globally.
Learn more about how business can accelerate process on gender equality through our E-Learning Course on the UN Global Compact Academy.
Our Impact
Advancing gender equality in business is not only the right thing to do, it is the smart thing to do. Research shows investing in women and girls can lead to increases in productivity, organizational effectiveness, return on investment and higher consumer satisfaction. Companies with the highest proportion of female employees had annual returns that were 2.8 percentage points higher than the least diverse firms. A growing number of business leaders recognize the importance of women as leaders, consumers, entrepreneurs, workers and caretakers. They are adapting their policies, programmes and initiatives to create environments where women and girls thrive.
Looking beyond the workplace, companies are enhancing support for women in the marketplace through building inclusive supply chains and implementing equitable standards of engagement. In 2022, the UN Global Compact will be expanding support for business in this area by offering learning materials on the integral role business has to play in working with more women-owned business in their supply chain, as well as supporting suppliers to adopt more gender-responsive business practices.
Ways to Engage
Connect   ➤
Save the date for Target Gender Equality LIVE on 15 March 2022
Watch past and sign up for future WEPs 101 webinars
Learn   ➤
Access our e-learning course
Take the WEPs Gender Gap Analysis Tool
Watch our session on advancing women's leadership in climate action
COVID-19 and gender equality
Lead   ➤
Join Target Gender Equality to turn commitment into action
Sign the WEPs CEO Statement of Support
Think Lab on Gender Responsive Procurement and Women's Entrepreneurship — coming soon
Communicate
Subscribe to the Target Gender Equality Newsletter
Check out our Target Gender Equality videos
Communicate your progress in advancing gender equality using the CoP
SUPPORTED BY:
Patron:
Sponsors:
Contact
Ms. Lina Al Qaddoumi
Gender Equality Manager
Alqaddoumi@unglobalcompact.org
(917)496-3618
Sign the WEPs
Take the WEPs Gender Gap Analysis Tool
More Information
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women
Beijing Platform for Action
Resources
Access our E-Learning Course
Take the WEPs Gender Gap Analysis Tool
Check out the Target Gender Equality Videos
What's Happening
Endorse the Women's Empowerment Principles
Commit
Target Gender Equality
Background
WEPs Tool
Background
From our Library
Women's Empowerment and Business: 2020 Trends and Opportunities
Report
Target Gender Equality Newsletter
Case Example
Women's Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business
Report
News
Events
Academy
News
2023-01-12
New York, United States of America
Alarmed by Speed and Scale of Disruption, CEOs Embrace Sustainability to Build Long-Term Resilience, According to UN Global Compact and Accenture
2022-12-28
New York, United States of America
10 key accomplishments for the UN Global Compact in 2022
2022-12-15
New York, United States of America
Financing a Just Transition is the latest guidance for business launched by the UN Global Compact
2022-12-14
New York, United States of America
UN Global Compact CFO Coalition for the SDGs appoints new Advisory Board
2022-12-09
United States of America
A Just Transition – how do we make it happen?
2022-11-30
New York, United States of America
UN Global Compact launches Peer Learning Groups to connect sustainability leaders across industries and sectors
2022-11-30
New York, United States of America
Top 3 online courses to help your company take ambitious climate action
2022-11-23
New York, United States of America
UN Global Compact launches new business guidance on a Just Transition for Climate Adaptation
2022-11-21
New York, United States of America
COP 27: 3 Key Areas for Global Leaders on the Ocean
View All News
Events
17-Jan-2023
Davos, Switzerland
12th UN Global Compact-Accenture CEO Study Launch
18-Jan-2023
Davos, Switzerland
Halfway to 2030: Raising the Bar for SDG Leadership
18-Jan-2023
Peer Learning Groups Information Session
25-Jan-2023
Information Session: Submitting the enhanced Communication on Progress in 2023
01-Feb-2023
Countdown to International Women’s Day
01-Feb-2023
Academy regional exchange sessions: Target Setting for Gender Equality
08-Feb-2023
Live demonstration: See the new Communication on Progress digital platform
09-Feb-2023
Academy Changemaker session: Bringing more women into the boardroom
14-Feb-2023
Scottsdale, AZ, United States of America
United Nations Global Compact at GreenBiz 23
View All Events
Academy
07-Feb-2023
Deep Dive Series: Modernizing Executive Pay
View All Academy Events
Help us transform the world through business
Contribute Today
Sign Up for Our Bulletin
Have a Question?
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
Follow Us
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
Flickr
RSS
QuickLinks
The Ten Principles
Sustainable Development Goals
Our Participants
All Our Work
What You Can Do
Careers & Opportunities
Join Now
Submit your CoP
Tweets by @globalcompact
United Nations
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Copyright
Photo Credits