How to hire to improve gender diversity in the workplace | Michael Page India
Skip to main navigation
English
Job Search
Save jobs, 0 currently saved jobs
0
Save jobs
Register / Sign in
Job Search
Save jobs, 0 currently saved jobs
0
Save jobs
Register / Sign in
Main navigation Home Jobs
Searching for a job?
Submit your CV Career advice Salary survey Job Match - NEW Looking to return to India?
Returning Indians Job search advice
Changing jobs Resume and cover letter Salary and negotiation Interview Starting out Contracting Recruiting
Looking to hire?
Recruitment services Reasons to partner with Michael Page Our sourcing methodology Candidate verification Management advice Job Advertising: ReachTalent High Volume / Project Recruitment
About Page Project Outsourcing Our successes Our approach Our team of experts Our testimonials Recruitment expertise
Analytics Banking and financial services Consultancy, Strategy and Change Engineering and manufacturing Executive Search Finance and accounting Healthcare and life sciences Human resources Legal Marketing Procurement and supply chain Retail Sales Technology Advice
Career Advice
Changing jobs Interview Resume and cover letter Salary and negotiation Leading Women Women in leadership interviews Pre-MBA Advice How to start your PE/VC Career Prepare for your investment interview Management Advice
Hiring Leadership Staff development Diversity and inclusion Market insights Talent Trends 2022 Employment market updates Industry reports ABC's of Technology Download Humans of AI report Download Humans of Blockchain report Download Humans of Cybersecurity report Download Humans of Data report Most Popular Articles
Prioritising wellbeing and a positive mindset Virtual job interviews tips Tips to writing a great cover letter Onboarding in remote teams 8 must have qualities of an effective leader About
About Us
What we do Work for us Media Releases Reviews - Mumbai Reviews - Delhi Awards About PageGroup Page Outsourcing Join PageGroup
Join PageGroup
About PageGroup Why choose us? Your role here Use your skills FAQs Apply now Contact
Contact us
Find our offices Looking to hire? Feedback Pre-MBA
Keyword
Home
/
Advice
/
Management Advice
/
Diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusionSearch Keyword
Location
Sort by RelevanceChangedSalary Max BaseSalary Min Base Salary Min Salary min01 lacs10 lacs20 lacs30 lacs40 lacs50 lacs60 lacs70 lacs80 lacs90 lacs1 Crore1 Crore+ Salary Max Salary max01 lacs10 lacs20 lacs30 lacs40 lacs50 lacs60 lacs70 lacs80 lacs90 lacs1 Crore1 Crore+Cancel CancelHow to hire to improve gender diversity in the workplace
A commitment to improving gender diversity and gender balance in your workplace is a direct investment in your company.Diversity creates an inclusive culture and environment that not only increases employee productivity and job satisfaction but also creates innovative solutions to complex business challenges. Despite the benefits of gender diversity in the workplace, there is still a lot of work to be done. Women’s emotional intelligence: a boost for successful leadership The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated attitudes on flexible working, innovation, transparent leadership, and the need for more empathetic management. PwC's 2017 Global CEO Survey found that CEOs rank problem-solving, collaboration, adaptability, and emotional intelligence as key important skills for their organisations. This is a shift away from traditionally masculine traits towards capabilities that are seen as more intuitively female.  In fact, the most highly trusted companies are 1.4 times more likely to have gender diversity targets in their chief executive compensation plans, according to PwC’s 25th Annual Global CEO Survey report. An increase in women leadersDespite all that, women are still underrepresented at every level of the corporate hierarchy, with the gap becoming more significant at senior executive levels. According to the Women and Work report by the World Economic Forum in 2016, women make up 46% of employees at the entry level, 37% at the managerial level, 29% at the VP level and 19% at the C-suite level. The good news is that there is progress in female representation in the workforce. According to the 2022 Women in Business report by Grant Thornton, the proportion of leadership roles held by females worldwide stood at 19% in 2004, the number rose to 31% in 2021 and 32% in 2022. In APAC, 30% of leadership roles are held by women, while 37% of such roles are held by women in Asean.  While progress seems slow, any momentum is encouraging, especially since it follows the COVID-19 pandemic, where no one is expecting much during these uncertain times.Related: 5 ways to improve equity in the workplaceHiring female talent is not as simple as hiring female talentThere are significant barriers that hinder female hires. For one, women tend to network with other women. Given that there are generally more men in leadership positions, women could end up with less access to mentorship and sponsorship from senior leaders. Also, female employees are less comfortable about sharing opinions or ideas that challenge the status quo in their organisation. And therefore, according to McKinsey & Company's Taking the Lead for Inclusion report, more women than men opted not to pursue or accept a position because they believed the organisation would not be an inclusive place to work. With the COVID-19 pandemic, working mothers are more likely to consider leaving the workforce or downshifting their careers due to childcare responsibilities, as reported in the 2020 Women in the Workplace report by McKinsey & Company and LeanIn.Org. Ways to improve gender diversity in the workplaceAt the end of the day, companies want to hire more women leaders. Organisations should continuously assess and reassess their best practices for gender diversity, and by extension, diversity and inclusion. While it begins at the recruitment level, corporations need to develop an awareness of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) and decide how to deliver diversity targets at the workplace as this would contribute to talent retention, according to Rani Nandan, PageGroup’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Director for the Asia Pacific. Recruiters may consider excluding non-essential criteria and reference broader capability requirements to avoid disproportionate focus on professional qualificationsThough it looks like there is still a long way to go to improve gender equality and equity in the workplace, companies need to look at ways to achieve the greatest impact for a gender-inclusive workforce.The key is to integrate DE&I policies and commitments into the business framework to bring about true cultural change. Aside from diversity programs, achieving gender diversity starts with recruitment processes, and ahead, some recruiting strategies to consider.Related: Why recognising women in leadership and their achievements matterPractical hiring strategies to improve gender diversity in the workplace1. Provide training on inclusive hiringThe impact of stereotypes and unconscious biases exist, and it can come from a man or a woman. Therefore, it is vital to actively train recruiters, hiring managers and senior leaders who participate in hiring, from those responsible for writing job descriptions, to interviewing and making hiring decisions. “We have a mandatory training course, which is extensive and comprehensive to educate our employees on eliminating unconscious bias when pre-screening and interviewing candidates,” shares Richa Doyle, Associate Director at Page Personnel Singapore.She adds, “We cover unconscious bias, finding diverse talent, creating inclusive job descriptions, inclusive shortlisting and inclusive interviewing practices. The modules give an in-depth analysis and explore different scenarios, followed by tests that require a 100% passing rate before moving on to the next module.”To aid interviewers to reduce bias, companies could create a defined job criteria checklist, and hiring decisions should be made against this list, with any additional notes or performance ratings to be added in a separate section. Richa elaborates, “The interview process must be standardised, fair, and consistent. The questions we ask the candidates must be structured to be evidence-based. There is an expectation of the consultant being able to manage their personal bias. We have a very systematic system of record notes from the interviews, which indicate the correct information presented by the candidate. We ensure we create the right interview environment, ask the right questions, practice active listening skills, make verbatim notes, and classify and evaluate the [feedback].” 2. Implement a diverse interview panel with diverse interviewersIt's critical to have a diverse panel of interviewers in order to catch interviewer bias early on. If your company uses external recruiting firms, it's important to check in with them to see how they handle diverse hiring. At the hiring manager or talent acquisition manager level, the company could make a regulation that there should always be two hirers present at every interview. To eliminate gender bias, one interviewer could interview for technical skills, while the other could focus on behavioural ones. With two people accessing an interviewee, you will get different, or similar, professional opinions, which can lead to a fairer and more objective perspective on the applicant.  Richard Barber, Associate Partner at Page Executive Hong Kong, explains, “If a candidate is interviewing for a senior role, it would also be vital to have people of different ethnicities, as well as both genders, on the interview panel to create a more inclusive interview process. I would like to highlight that there is nothing wrong with having one hiring manager conduct the interview. However, having gender diversity would not only foster a gender-inclusive workplace, it can also project a diversity-positive outlook for the candidate on your company, whether or not the candidate gets the role.”3. Make job posts more inclusive Use gender-neutral, inclusive language and balance the use of gender-charged wordsWhile most job descriptions are generally inclusive, certain words used in job descriptions can affect job appeal for women in terms of personal skill and belongingness. Even one word can make the difference between attracting female applicants and turning them away. For instance, words like "dominant", "self-reliant" and "analyse" are perceived as more masculine, while words like "serves", "dependable", "collaborate" and "consider" are considered female-trait words, according to this journal. Skip the nice-to-have requirements and stick to must-haves78% of women’s reasons for not applying, have to do with believing that the job qualifications are real requirements, according to a Harvard Business Review survey.  “Recruiters may consider excluding non-essential criteria and reference broader capability requirements to avoid disproportionate focus on professional qualifications,” says Nandan. There can also be a reduced focus on required qualifications and experience, and more emphasis on the objectives for the role. You can use this free tool to help decode your job advertisement and find out if it is inclusive enough to attract more job applicants. Demonstrate a commitment to true inclusivityAdd a statement to show your organisation’s commitment as an Equal Opportunity Employer that expresses the company’s approach to diversity, equity and inclusion, providing support and reasonable adjustments to all. Nandan adds, go further by including family-friendly benefits like flexible work arrangements and parental leave.Start a hiring conversation with Michael Page to find out how you, too, can reap the many benefits of a leading global recruitment agency.Read more:How to improve your work-life balanceThe highest paying jobs in India for 2022How to be more confident at work according to Asia's female leadersRequest a callbackMichael Page 23/04/2022recruitmenthuman resources Keyword If you are looking for a job, visit the Candidates sectionAre you Hiring?If you are an employer and would like to discuss your hiring needs, fill in the form below and we will call you back.Advertise Your Role With Us Related articles
Why candidate experience matters and how to do it wellAs competition for top talent gets more intense, what can set a company apart is the candidate experience.By Michael Page5 min read
How HR needs to evolve to support the future of workHR needs to continuously look for ways to support business leaders while increasing employee engagement and improving…By Richard Barber5 min read
How remote work widens your recruiting pool in healthcare and life sci…According to PageGroup consultants all over the world, the healthcare and life sciences industry is shifting towards…By Michael Page5 min read
Talent mobility: An emerging hiring trend in Healthcare and Life Scien…Instead of looking for talents externally, employers in the healthcare and life sciences sector could look within the…By Michael Page4 min read
Hiring picks up across APAC as businesses adapt recruitment plansBusinesses across the region are acting now and adapting their recruitment plans during the pandemic, rather than…By Michael Page4 min read Join over 60,000 readers!Receive free advice to help give you a competitive edge in your career.
Website URL
Add to home screenThis website has app functionality. Add it to your home screen for fast access and offline features.
1) Press the share button
2) Press ‘Add to Home Screen’
General
Our response to COVID-19 Investor site PageGroup corporate site Page Executive Page Outsourcing Email disclaimer Advisory on job scams Site map Site terms Privacy policy Cookie policy Company compliance Feedback Country/Region Jobs by function Browse Jobs
Browse jobs by Function
AnalyticsBanking & Financial ServicesConsultancy, Strategy & ChangeEngineering & ManufacturingFinance & AccountingHealthcare & Life SciencesHuman ResourcesInformation TechnologyInsuranceLegalMarketingProcurement & Supply ChainRetailSalesFunction
AnalyticsBanking & Financial ServicesConsultancy, Strategy & ChangeEngineering & ManufacturingFinance & AccountingHealthcare & Life SciencesHuman ResourcesInformation TechnologyInsuranceLegalMarketingProcurement & Supply ChainRetailSales Contact
Feedback Looking to hire? Submit your CV Our Offices
Gurgaon Mumbai BangaloreAccreditations
© Michael Page International Recruitment Pvt Ltd Registered office address at 5th Floor, 2 North Avenue, Maker Maxity, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051