Gender, Diversity and Inclusion | IDB Invest
Skip to main content
A member of the Inter-American Development Bank Group
Search
Search
English
EspañolEnglish
Client Login
About Us
Projects
Countries
Sectors
Solutions
Impact
Sustainability
Investors
Search
Search
Gender, Diversity and Inclusion
Tags
Banner
gender equality
equidad de género
Género
gender
StrategyBlogs & NewsOur Expert
Investing more in women will boost the recovery of Latin America and the Caribbean
The pandemic has particularly affected women. Pre-existing gender gaps have exposed them to further loss of income, unemployment and unpaid household burden.
Contributing to closing the gender gap is not only necessary for the prosperity of the region, but it is also a great business opportunity. Various studies show that women tend to be better payers, that the businesses they lead generate higher financial returns and that, as consumers, they make most of the expense decisions.
IDB Invest has been promoting gender-lens investing, which focuses on investing in companies led by women, in those with gender equality policies and in those that offer products and services aimed at women.
Today, more than ever, we are committed to continue paving this path because when women win, we all win.
Challenges and Opportunities
Why is having a gender equality strategy good for business?
An annual GDP growth opportunity of US$2.6 billion for the region’s labor market in 2025 is forecast if women participate in the market economy to the same extent as men.
Women influence 80% of household purchases. In 2014, 54% of the women in the region were in the workforce--an increase of 44% since 1990--and Caribbean women had the highest participation rates.
There are between 1.2 and 1.4 million micro-, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) in the region owned by women, representing 40% of the total. However, female business owners face higher barriers to accessing financing and often obtain less attractive conditions than men.
At IDB Invest, we work with our clients to narrow some of these gender gaps and to find new business opportunities.
Our Strategy
At IDB Invest, we have made a simple and clear promise: we are 100% committed to gender equality as well as diversity and inclusion.
We help companies identify the economic opportunity gained by integrating a strategy of gender equality, diversity, and inclusion into their business. We work with various sectors offering finance products and consultancy services to help them create more inclusive companies. We help companies:
• With their human capital strategy to attract and retain the best talent through human resource policy recommendations, diversity and inclusion training, and mentoring programs.
• With their market strategy to uncover potential opportunities and segments through market research, product and service development, and sales force training.
•
With their value chain strategy, procurement policy and service contracting recommendations as well as suggestions for a more inclusive value chain, and with supplier training.
Our Commitment
At IDB Invest, we believe that inclusion in the broadest sense enables companies to create inclusive work place atmospheres where all workers, regardless of their gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or physical ability, feel respected and included and can perform to their fullest potential, helping businesses thrive.
Human talent, when diverse and inclusive, benefits companies because it boosts innovation and the discovery of new markets as well as improves financial results. IDB Invest gives advice on gender equality, diversity, and inclusion through innovative financial and non-financial solutions, producing positive results for our clients and society at large.
Blogs and News
News
14 Dec 2022
IDB Invest Supports Women Microentrepreneurs in Chile with a $10 Million Loan to Fondo Esperanza
Blog
04 Oct 2022
How Can the Private Sector Contribute to Gender Issues in Bolivia?
News
02 Sep 2022
IDB Invest Issues Social Bond to Support MSME Value Chains in Latin America and the Caribbean
Blog
14 Sep 2022
Reigniting Women-led Businesses in the Caribbean with Better Access to Finance
Read our blog
Publications
November 2021
Equality needs everyone: The role of men in gender equity, diversity and inclusion
See more information
March 2019
Report: Gender Lens Investing: How Finance Can Accelerate Gender Equality in Latin America and the Caribbean
See more information
March 2019
DEBrief: Gender Lens Investing: How Finance Can Accelerate Gender Equality in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC)
See more information
February 2018
The Power Of Gender Equality in the Workplace
See more information
March 2018
Global Trends Report 2018: Women's Empowerment Principles
See more information
October 2018
Report: Growing as equals - Banking on women, a business opportunity
See more information
October 2018
Report: For equality we make the difference - Financial incentives to close the gender gap
See more information
Stephanie
Oueda
Head of Gender, Diversity and Inclusion
About
Meet Our Expert:
Stephanie is the head of gender and diversity at IDB Invest, based in Washington, D.C. At IDB Invest, our goal is to improve lives. As Head of Gender and Diversity, Stephanie's role is to ensure that all operations have a positive impact in leading to a more gender-balanced society. Mainly, she focuses on the empowerment of women, although the role also covers the empowerment of men in the Caribbean.
Under her leadership, this area of the organization now works on programs to include other underrepresented groups and increase other dimensions of diversity in order to work towards a more inclusive society. For example, the inclusion of people of African descent, LGBT +, indigenous people and people with disabilities.
Stephanie has two master's degrees, one in economics and one in political science from the University of Montreal and the Sorbonne University, respectively.
Contact: stephanieo@idbinvest.org
Documents of the Board of Directors
Our knowledge
Blog
News & Media
Publications
Get in touch
Access to Information
Contact Us
Careers
Social
Newsletter
Subscribe to our newsletter
Submit
Leave this field blank
Headquarters
IDB
|
IDB Lab
Terms of use
|
©2017-2023 Inter-American Investment Corporation