Gender | Barclays
-
Our strategy
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Gender
Making progress towards parity
Barclays remains focussed on improving gender diversity through a workplace environment and culture that supports and empowers women and men across the organisation to attract and retain women at all levels.
From hiring the UK’s first ever female bank manager in the 1950s to being the first financial services company to sign up to the UN’s HeForShe campaign in 2015, Barclays has often been at the forefront in championing women’s careers and engaging men in the conversation.
We want to achieve gender equality at every level of Barclays so that our female colleagues can fulfil their career aspirations. We know that we have more to do to continue accelerating the progression of women into more senior roles and we will continue to push our ambitions much further on gender diversity and gender parity.
Read more in the Barclays Diversity, Equity and Inclusion report.
Download the report (PDF)
Working at Barclays
Development at Barclays is about empowering all our colleagues to thrive through a range of development opportunities. We run a number of leadership programmes, which aim to develop high-performing female colleagues to fulfil their potential, and take ownership of their career progression.
Aspire, is programmatic development experience designed to empower, connect and mobilise our high-potential colleagues at Vice President level with the skills and knowledge to thrive in a complex and uncertain world.
Launchpad, has been designed to accelerate the career advancement of ethnically diverse and female colleagues as Assistant Vice President and Vice President level. The programme focuses on helping colleagues to build their leadership capability and confidence, and successfully shift the Barclays culture today and in the future.
Strategic Leader, is a leadership experience that is designed to build a long term inclusive talent pipeline of diverse senior leaders by supporting and challenging our high potential Directors to build the skills to lead transformational change at Barclays.
Increasing the number of women in senior positions is integral to our long-term goal for Barclays, to create a more inclusive leadership culture in which everyone is equally able to progress and access opportunities to support their career development. International Women's Day, sponsorship and mentoring initiatives, enable us to support the considerable achievements of the talented women across our business outside of structured programmes on a day to day basis.
Women in Finance Charter
As a founding signatory of the HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter, a signatory of the Hampton Alexander Review and contributor to the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, we proactively set gender targets. Our ambition is to achieve 33% female Managing Directors and Directors globally by the end of 2025. As of 2021, we met our global commitment to a target of 28% of women in senior leadership roles – our Director and Managing Director population – up from 26% in 2020.
More information about HMT and our progress in becoming a more inclusive organisation is set out in our first ever Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Report. (PDF 1.5MB)
Pay Gaps Reports
Pay gaps are not the same as unequal pay. Equal pay considers work of equal value.
A gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of all men and women across an entity or organisation. The figure is expressed as a percentage of male pay. As part of Barclays commitment to becoming a more inclusive organisation, we know we must address pay gaps where they exist. We have published our UK-wide gender and ethnicity pay gaps for 2021, along with some context to help understand the data.  In 2022, for the first time, we have published our Barclays Ireland PLC gender pay gaps covering Ireland payroll employees of Barclays Bank Ireland PLC.
UK Pay Gaps 2021 (PDF 2MB)
Ireland Pay Gaps 2022 (PDF 3.7MB)
Win, the gender resource group
Win, the gender resource group exists to encourage, inspire and support women in achieving their career goals and potential at Barclays. Dedicated to attracting, retaining and developing female talent to increase the representation and decrease the turnover of women at every level of our business. Both men and women are able to join Win.
Win anchors its programmes to key dates such as International Women's Day, to continue to drive the conversation on gender equality. The employee resource group offers targeted career and personal development opportunities to women through initiatives like Win Careers Week.
Read more on our ERGs
Empowering Male Allies to champion gender equality
Barclays has a long history of progress towards gender equality, and men have always been part of that journey. As a founding member and corporate Impact Champion within the UN HeForShe movement, Barclays committed to engaging men in the drive to increase the number of women in senior leadership.
By empowering Male Allies, it has created a powerful network of global advocates, pledging to take action to be effective allies for women at work, accelerate gender parity and achieve a more equitable workplace.
We have documented some of the practical steps that we have taken to empower male allies to champion gender equality in this guide HeForShe Proven Solution.
International Women’s Day
International Women’s Day (IWD) acknowledges the social, economic, cultural and political achievement of women while advocating and pushing for gender parity.
Barclays has been a long-time supporter of IWD and continues to raise awareness of gender issues, not only within the organisation but across the industry, as well as implementing steps across its business to address challenges and support its female population.
Read our story with 10 colleagues from around the globe, who share how Barclays is promoting gender diversity in the workplace.
Supporting female-led businesses
We are committed to supporting female entrepreneurs, especially as the economy recovers post pandemic.  We are a founding signatory of the UK Government’s Investing in Women Code , and in the past few months have made a number of long-term commitments.  These include helping 100,000 women across the UK to start up and run their own business, and continuing to provide support through the New York-based Female Innovators Lab , and global programmes such as Female Founders First .
In 2021 we expanded our Female Innovators Lab, to help entrepreneurial women in the UK and Europe to build venture-backable businesses, and increasing diversity in the FinTech sector.
Established in the US in 2019, the Female Innovators Lab  led by Barclays and Anthemis, is a venture fund and studio dedicated to investing in and cultivating entrepreneurial talent in women across the financial services ecosystem.  The Lab combines Barclays’ and Anthemis’ early stage investment expertise and wide fintech network.  It identifies female founders at the earliest stage of their journey and matches them with capital and support to build and scale a company.  The founders will receive an investment from the US$30m UK-based fund of which Barclays is the anchor limited partner, as well as bespoke support from the lab team and access to Barclays’ and Anthemis’ dedicated office space in London.
The Female Innovators Lab expansion builds on the work Barclays has already done to promote diversity and inclusion in the start-up community through programmes such as Female Founders First , and the Black Founders Accelerator.
+ More Stories
French gender quality index
Since 2018, French law requires all organisations with more than 50 employees to publish a gender equality score annually. For 2021, Barclays Bank Ireland Plc (France) scored 77 points out of 100, based on an analysis of four indicators as below:
Gender pay gaps: 27/40
Proportion of females receiving salary increases in comparison to males: 35/35
Percentage of females receiving a salary increase on returning from maternity leave: 15/15
Gender representation in the top 10 paid roles: 0/10
TOTAL = 77 / 100 points
Barclays is committed to improving the gender diversity of our leadership and to improving the gender equality score.
The below improvement targets are focused on increasing the proportion of female employees at senior levels and support our aim of improving scores on the two gender equality index indicators against which Barclays Bank Ireland Plc (France) did not achieve full scores for 2021:
Indicators
Actions to improve indicator scores
Gender pay gaps
Continue to review and enhance our processes to ensure that they are aligned to our Equal pay commitment – employees must be rewarded fairly, with regards to their specific role, seniority, responsibilities, skills and experience and other factors which properly affect pay, and pay decisions must not take into account any protected characteristic
Improve senior female representation by:
Actively identifying female talent in the market
Monitoring our promotions process and building our internal pipeline to ensure that widest available pool of talent is considered for promotion
Actively providing development opportunities for our female talent, such as ex-officio roles and places on our development programmes
Gender representation in top 10 paid roles
Global Gender Ambition of 33% female representation in senior leadership roles (D/MD) by the end of 2025 underpinned by gender diversity targets for each of our business area, reflecting the differing market environments in which our businesses operate
You can read more about Barclays’ overall approach to gender equality in the Diversity and Inclusion Report 2021
Index Egalité Femmes – Hommes France
Depuis 2018, conformément aux dispositions légales françaises, toutes les sociétés de plus de 50 salariés doivent publier leur index annuel d’égalité femmes – hommes. Pour l’année 2021, Barclays Bank Ireland Plc (France) a atteint le résultat de 77 points sur 100, établi comme la somme des points des quatre indicateurs suivants :
Écart de rémunération entre femmes et hommes: 27/40
Ecart d’augmentations individuelles entre femmes et hommes : 35/35
Pourcentage de salariées augmentées au retour du congé maternité: 15/15
Nombre de salariés du sexe sous-représenté parmi les dix salariés ayant perçu les plus hautes rémunérations: 0/10
TOTAL = 77 / 100 points
Barclays est engagé à promouvoir la diversité femmes-hommes au sein de l’encadrement supérieur et améliorer le score de l’index en matière d’égalité femmes-hommes.
Les objectifs de progression consignés ci-dessous, visent à assurer une meilleure représentation des femmes dans les postes d’encadrement supérieur et témoignent de notre volonté d’améliorer le résultat des deux indicateurs 2021n’ayant pas atteint le score maximum au sein de Barclays Bank Ireland Plc (France) :
Indicateurs
Actions ayant pour objectif de faire progresser le score des indicateurs
Gender pay gaps
Continuer d’analyser et d’améliorer nos procédures afin d’assurer que celles-ci restent alignées avec nos engagements en matière d’égalité de rémunération – les salariés doivent être rémunérés équitablement, au regard de leur poste, leur ancienneté, leur compétence et tout autre facteur légitime susceptible d’impacter leur rémunération. Par conséquent, les décisions salariales ne doivent pas prendre en compte une quelconque caractéristique.
Améliorer la représentation des femmes aux postes à hautes responsabilités en :
Identifiant activement le pipe de talents féminins sur le marché ;
Pilotant notre process de promotion et en constituant un vivier interne de talents féminins à des fins de nomination lors des campagnes de promotion ;
Proposant activement des opportunités de développement en interne à nos talents féminins telles des nominations en tant qu’ « ex-officio » et des places dans nos programmes de développement
Indicateur n°4 :
Nombre de salariés du sexe sous-représenté parmi les 10 salariés ayant perçu les plus hautes rémunérations
Atteindre une représentation globale de 33% de femmes aux postes d’encadrement supérieur (Director/ Managing Director) d’ici le dernier trimestre 2025, soutenue par les objectifs en matière d’égalité femmes – hommes définis au sein de chaque ligne de business reflétant des pratiques différentiées selon les marchés sur lesquels nous opérons
Vous pouvez consulter le Rapport Diversité et Inclusion 2021 qui présente l’approche du Groupe Barclays en faveur de l’égalité femmes – hommes.
Important information