Gender equality | UNICEF
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
English
Français
Español
العربية
中文
High contrast
Press Centre
Donate
Meganav - EN
What we do
Focus areas
All areas
Adolescent development
Child protection
Child rights
Children with disabilities
Climate change and environment
COVID-19 response
Early childhood development
Education
Gender
Health
Humanitarian emergencies
Immunization
Migrant and refugee children
Nutrition
Social and behaviour change
Social policy
Water, sanitation and hygiene
How we do it
Innovation
Partnerships
Supply and logistics
Humanitarian Action for Children
Global advocacy
Action on the climate crisis
Better mental health: #OnMyMind
Child health and survival
Children under attack
Tackling the learning crisis
RESEARCH AND REPORTS
Publications
The State of the World’s Children
Annual Report
Humanitarian Action for Children
Publications by topic
Data
Data by topic and country
Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICs)
Policy and research
Insight and Policy
Research - Innocenti
Child rights and global goals
Convention on the Rights of the Child
Core Commitments for Children
Sustainable Development Goals
STORIES
Stories and explainers
Stories of impact
Issue explainers
Photography
Emergencies spotlight
All emergencies
Afghanistan
Horn of Africa
Rohingya refugees
Syria
Ukraine
Yemen
Voices
UNICEF Blog
Voices of Youth
Evidence for Action blog
Data Blog
About UNICEF
About us
Who we are
History
Results
Strategic Plan
Transparency and accountability
Audit and Investigation
Work with us
Our people
Executive leadership
Executive Board
Goodwill Ambassadors
Where we work
All locations
East Asia and Pacific
Eastern and Southern Africa
Europe and Central Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle East and North Africa
South Asia
West and Central Africa
Child rights and global goals
Convention on the Rights of the Child
Sustainable Development Goals
TAKE ACTION
Get involved
Work with us
Partner with us
Donate
Volunteer
Spotlight
World Children's Day
Action on the climate crisis
Better mental health: #OnMyMind
Tackling the learning crisis
Child health and survival
Communities
UNICEF Parenting
Voices of Youth
U-Report
Search area has closed.Search area has opened.SearchClose
Search UNICEF
Fulltext search
Max
Programme
Gender equality
Equal rights and opportunities for girls and boys help all children fulfil their potential.
UNICEF/UNI235471/Willocq
Home
Programme Menu
Gender equality
Gender Action Plan
Skills4Girls
International Day of the Girl
Available in:EnglishFrançaisEspañolالعربية中文
Jump to
Challenge
Solution
Resources
Girls and boys see gender inequality in their homes and communities every day – in textbooks, in the media and among the adults who care for them.
Parents may assume unequal responsibility for household work, with mothers bearing the brunt of caregiving and chores. The majority of low-skilled and underpaid community health workers who attend to children are also women, with limited opportunity for professional growth.
And in schools, many girls receive less support than boys to pursue the studies they choose. This happens for a variety of reasons: The safety, hygiene and sanitation needs of girls may be neglected, barring them from regularly attending class. Discriminatory teaching practices and education materials also produce gender gaps in learning and skills development. As a result, nearly 1 in 4 girls between the ages of 15 and 19 are neither employed nor in education or training – compared to 1 in 10 boys.
Worldwide, nearly 1 in 4 girls between the ages of 15 and 19 are neither employed nor in education or training – compared to 1 in 10 boys.
Yet, in early childhood, gender disparities start out small. Girls have higher survival rates at birth, are more likely to be developmentally on track, and are just as likely to participate in preschool. Among those who reach secondary school, girls tend to outperform boys in reading across every country where data are available.
But the onset of adolescence can bring significant barriers to girls’ well-being. Gender norms and discrimination heighten their risk of unwanted pregnancy, HIV and AIDS, and malnutrition. Especially in emergency settings and in places where menstruation remains taboo, girls are cut off from the information and supplies they need to stay healthy and safe.
UNICEF Nepal/2019/SKLama
“I realized the harm I would be causing myself if I agreed to get married,” says Rashida Khatun, 14, in south-eastern Nepal. Rashida is enrolled in a UNICEF-supported programme that provides out-of-school girls with basic numeracy, literacy and life skills. “When I first joined the class, I didn’t know that children had rights, or that child marriage was a violation of those rights... I told [my mother] I didn’t want to ruin my future by getting married so young. I told her that I wanted to complete my studies, become a nurse.”
In its most insidious form, gender inequality turns violent. Some 1 in 20 girls between the ages of 15 and 19 – around 13 million – have experienced forced sex. In times of both peace and conflict, adolescent girls face the highest risk of gender-based violence. Hundreds of millions of girls worldwide are still subjected to child marriage and female genital mutilation – even though both have been internationally recognized as human rights violations. And violence can occur at birth, like in places where female infanticide is known to persist.
Some 1 in 20 girls between the ages of 15 and 19 – around 13 million globally – have experienced forced sex in their lifetimes.
Harmful gender norms are perpetuated at the highest levels. In some countries, they become entrenched in laws and policies that fail to uphold – or that even violate – girls’ rights, like laws that restrict women from inheriting property. Boys also suffer from gender norms: Social conceptions of masculinity can fuel child labour, gang violence, disengagement from school, and recruitment into armed groups.
What progress has been made for girls and young women?
Despite major hurdles that still deny them equal rights, girls refuse to limit their ambitions. Since the signing of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action in 1995 – the most comprehensive policy agenda for gender equality – the world has seen uneven progress.
More and more girls are attending and completing school, and fewer are getting married or becoming mothers while still children themselves. But discrimination and limiting stereotypes remain rife. Technological change and humanitarian emergencies are also confronting girls with new challenges, while old ones – violence, institutionalized biases, poor learning and life opportunities – persist.
That’s why girls from all walks of life are boldly raising their voices against inequality. Girl-led movements are stopping child marriage and female genital mutilation, demanding action on climate change, and trail-blazing in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) – asserting their power as global change-makers.
What is UNICEF doing to promote gender equality?
Reducing inequality strengthens economies and builds stable, resilient societies that give all individuals – including boys and men – the opportunity to fulfil their potential.
UNICEF builds partnerships across the global community to accelerate gender equality. In all areas of our work, we integrate strategies that address gender-specific discrimination and disadvantages.
This means partnering with national health sectors to expand quality maternal care and support the professionalization of the mostly female front-line community health workforce. It means promoting the role of women in the design and delivery of water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) ecosystems. And it means working with the education sector to ensure girls and boys thrive in their learning and find pathways to meaningful employment.
For adolescent girls especially, UNICEF invests in skills building to further their economic empowerment – as entrepreneurs, innovators and leaders. We focus on providing learning environments at a time and place that suit girls’ individual circumstances. We also work on assistive technologies for girls with disabilities, and on the expansion of digital platforms, vocational training and apprenticeships.
UNICEF
Supporting girls’ pathway from education to employment requires more than learning opportunities. It requires keeping girls safe from all forms of violence, in and out of school.
Our targeted initiatives to prevent and respond to gender-based violence help end child marriage, eliminate female genital mutilation, provide safe spaces, support menstrual health management, deliver HIV and AIDS care, meet psychosocial needs and more. We invest in innovative models that protect even the hardest-to-reach girls – like virtual safe spaces and apps that allow them to report violence and connect to local resources for support.
To guide investment and programming decisions at the national and global levels, we collect, quantify and share data critical for understanding ongoing and emerging challenges and solutions. What’s more, we tap into the power of youth to shape solutions for their own generation.
Take action for gender equality
Programme
Skills4Girls
Girl-centered solutions for unlocking the potential of adolescent girls
Explore our work
Report
Gender-Transformative Approaches in Health, Nutrition, HIV
Learning through evidence in Africa to support development of gender-transformative theories of change and to scale up models that address gender barriers
See the full report
Report
Media reporting of violence against girls
A joint report by UNICEF and UN Women on media reporting of violence against girls and the normalization of violence
See the full report
Report
Gender Transformative Education
Reimagining education for a more just and inclusive world
See the full report
Report
Global Annual Results Report 2021: Gender equality
Addressing gender inequalities and promoting women’s and girls’ empowerment and well-being to build an equal future for all children
See the full report
Article
Potential unlocked: Girls and young women on the move
A U-Report poll on aspirations and barriers to learning focuses on the different experiences of adolescent girls and young women on the move
Read the story
Blog post
6 ways the lives of girls are different than a decade ago
The lives of girls have improved in many respects, but they still face unprecedented challenges to their education, health and well-being
Read the story
Press release
09 November 2022
UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador Priyanka Chopra Jonas calls for more investment in girls during visit to home country,
India
Visit the page
Resources
UNICEF Gender Action Plan 2022–2025
UNICEF Gender Policy 2021-2030
Global annual results report 2021: Gender equality
Women work: UNICEF's approach to women's paid and unpaid work (A technical note)
A new era for girls: Taking stock of 25 years of progress
Gender equality data
Gender-responsive emergency preparedness: an action learning brief with principles and priority actions
Partnering with women- and girl-led organizations: an action learning brief and checklist for gender equality in humanitarian action
Gender-responsive and age-sensitive social protection
Beyond targeting: Making social protection work for women in Ghana
What is gender-responsive parenting?
How to remove gender stereotypes from playtime
Promoting diversity and inclusion in advertising: A UNICEF playbook
Dismantling gender stereotypes in media and advertising
Learn more about gender equality
Programme
Girls' education
Gender equality in education benefits every child.
Explore our work
Partner site
The Spotlight Initiative
Join the European Union and United Nations movement to eradicate violence against women and girls
Visit the site
Programme
Child marriage
Child marriage threatens the lives, well-being and futures of girls around the world
Explore our work
Programme
Female Genital Mutilation
Female genital mutilation is an extreme form of violence against girls and women.
Explore our work
Load more items
Footer
UNICEF Home
What we do
Research and reports
Stories and features
Where we work
Press centre
Take action
About us
Work for UNICEF
Partner with UNICEF
UNICEF Executive Board
Evaluation
Internal Audit and Investigations
Transparency and accountability
Sustainable Development Goals
Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
Related UNICEF sites
UNICEF Blog
UNICEF Data
UNICEF Parenting
Voices of Youth
Global Shared Services Centre
Support UNICEF
ЮНИСЕФ на Русском
Become a donor
Social
Footer Secondary
Contact us
Legal
Footer tertiary
Report fraud, abuse, wrongdoing
Accessibility