Frequently asked questions about gender equality | United Nations Population Fund
Skip to main content
United Nations Population Fund
ENESFR
Back
Search
Search
Main navigation
Home
Who we are
About us
Where we work
How we work
Human rights-based approaches
Culturally sensitive approaches
Results Based Management approach
Innovation
Advocacy
South-South and Triangular Cooperation
Internal Audit and Investigation
Strategic plan 2022 – 2025
UNFPA in the UN system
Transparency
Programme Expenses
Data Quality and Usability
Policies & Procedures Manual
Policies & Procedures Manual
Communication Policies
Ethics Policies
Evaluation Policies
Facilities and Administrative Services Policies
Finance and Budget Policies
Human Resources Policies
Issuance Policies
Information and Communications Technology Policies
Procurement Policies
Programme Policies
Interagency IP Protocol Resources
Resource Mobilization Policies
Safety and Security Policies
Technical Assistance Policies
Oversight and Internal Audit and Investigation Policies
Fraud Alert
Corporate Environmental Responsibility in UNFPA
External Partners
Key Facts
Projects
Sustainable Procurement in UNFPA
Protection from Sexual Exploitation, Sexual Abuse and Sexual Harassment
Strategic partnerships
Parliamentarians
Private Sector Spotlight
Sports Partnerships
TransformU - University Network
Women's Health in the Workplace
Disability Inclusion
Disability Inclusion
Generation Equality Forum: Action Coalition on Bodily Autonomy and SRHR
We Decide: Including and empowering persons with disabilities
Executive Leadership
Resources and Funding
Jobs
Supply Chain
Audit and Investigation
Evaluation
Executive Board
Goodwill Ambassadors and Patrons
UN Population Award
Frequently asked questions
What we do
Sexual & reproductive health
Family planning
HIV & AIDS
Maternal health
Midwifery
Obstetric fistula
Sexual & reproductive health
Young people
Adolescent pregnancy
Child marriage
Comprehensive sexuality education
Youth leadership & participation
Human rights & gender equality
Engaging men & boys
Female genital mutilation
Gender-based violence
Gender equality
Human rights
Gender-biased sex selection
Population matters
Ageing
Census
Climate change
Demographic dividend
Migration
Urbanization
Population trends
Humanitarian
Afghanistan
Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh
Ethiopia
Haiti
Horn of Africa
Syria
Ukraine
Yemen
Covid-19
Latest
Media centre
News Stories
Campaigns & Interactive
Publications
Multimedia
Statements and speeches
Events
Data
Population Data Portal
Donate
Home
Frequently asked questions about gender equality
Resources
Frequently asked questions about gender equality
Resource date:
2005
Author:
UNFPA
What is meant by gender?
The term gender refers to the economic, social and cultural attributes and opportunities associated with being male or female. In most societies, being a man or a woman is not simply a matter of different biological and physical characteristics. Men and women face different expectations about how they should dress, behave or work. Relations between men and women, whether in the family, the workplace or the public sphere, also reflect understandings of the talents, characteristics and behaviour appropriate to women and to men. Gender thus differs from sex in that it is social and cultural in nature rather than biological. Gender attributes and characteristics, encompassing, inter alia, the roles that men and women play and the expectations placed upon them, vary widely among societies and change over time. But the fact that gender attributes are socially constructed means that they are also amenable to change in ways that can make a society more just and equitable.
What is the difference between gender equity, gender equality and women’s empowerment?
Gender equity is the process of being fair to women and men. To ensure fairness, strategies and measures must often be available to compensate for women’s historical and social disadvantages that prevent women and men from otherwise operating on a level playing field. Equity leads to equality. Gender equality requires equal enjoyment by women and men of socially-valued goods, opportunities, resources and rewards. Where gender inequality exists, it is generally women who are excluded or disadvantaged in relation to decision-making and access to economic and social resources. Therefore a critical aspect of promoting gender equality is the empowerment of women, with a focus on identifying and redressing power imbalances and giving women more autonomy to manage their own lives. Gender equality does not mean that men and women become the same; only that access to opportunities and life changes is neither dependent on, nor constrained by, their sex. Achieving gender equality requires women’s empowerment to ensure that decision-making at private and public levels, and access to resources are no longer weighted in men’s favour, so that both women and men can fully participate as equal partners in productive and reproductive life.
Why is it important to take gender concerns into account in programme design and implementation?
Taking gender concerns into account when designing and implementing population and development programmes therefore is important for two reasons. First, there are differences between the roles of men and women, differences that demand different approaches. Second, there is systemic inequality between men and women. Universally, there are clear patterns of women’s inferior access to resources and opportunities. Moreover, women are systematically under-represented in decision-making processes that shape their societies and their own lives. This pattern of inequality is a constraint to the progress of any society because it limits the opportunities of one-half of its population. When women are constrained from reaching their full potential, that potential is lost to society as a whole. Programme design and implementation should endeavour to address either or both of these factors.
What is gender mainstreaming?
Gender mainstreaming is a strategy for integrating gender concerns in the analysis, formulation and monitoring of policies, programmes and projects. It is therefore a means to an end, not an end in itself; a process, not a goal. The purpose of gender mainstreaming is to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women in population and development activities. This requires addressing both the condition, as well as the position, of women and men in society. Gender mainstreaming therefore aims to strengthen the legitimacy of gender equality values by addressing known gender disparities and gaps in such areas as the division of labour between men and women; access to and control over resources; access to services, information and opportunities; and distribution of power and decision-making. UNFPA has adopted the mainstreaming of gender concerns into all population and development activities as the primary means of achieving the commitments on gender equality, equity and empowerment of women stemming from the International Conference on Population and Development.
Gender mainstreaming, as a strategy, does not preclude interventions that focus only on women or only on men. In some instances, the gender analysis that precedes programme design and development reveals severe inequalities that call for an initial strategy of sex-specific interventions. However, such sex-specific interventions should still aim to reduce identified gender disparities by focusing on equality or inequity as the objective rather than on men or women as a target group. In such a context, sex-specific interventions are still important aspects of a gender mainstreaming strategy. When implemented correctly, they should not contribute to a marginalization of men in such a critical area as access to reproductive and sexual health services. Nor should they contribute to the evaporation of gains or advances already secured by women. Rather, they should consolidate such gains that are central building blocks towards gender equality.
Why is gender equality important?
Gender equality is intrinsically linked to sustainable development and is vital to the realization of human rights for all. The overall objective of gender equality is a society in which women and men enjoy the same opportunities, rights and obligations in all spheres of life. Equality between men and women exists when both sexes are able to share equally in the distribution of power and influence; have equal opportunities for financial independence through work or through setting up businesses; enjoy equal access to education and the opportunity to develop personal ambitions, interests and talents; share responsibility for the home and children and are completely free from coercion, intimidation and gender-based violence both at work and at home.
Within the context of population and development programmes, gender equality is critical because it will enable women and men to make decisions that impact more positively on their own sexual and reproductive health as well as that of their spouses and families. Decision-making with regard to such issues as age at marriage, timing of births, use of contraception, and recourse to harmful practices (such as female genital cutting) stands to be improved with the achievement of gender equality.
However it is important to acknowledge that where gender inequality exists, it is generally women who are excluded or disadvantaged in relation to decision-making and access to economic and social resources. Therefore a critical aspect of promoting gender equality is the empowerment of women, with a focus on identifying and redressing power imbalances and giving women more autonomy to manage their own lives. This would enable them to make decisions and take actions to achieve and maintain their own reproductive and sexual health. Gender equality and women’s empowerment do not mean that men and women become the same; only that access to opportunities and life changes is neither dependent on, nor constrained by, their sex.
Is gender equality a concern for men?
The achievement of gender equality implies changes for both men and women. More equitable relationships will need to be based on a redefinition of the rights and responsibilities of women and men in all spheres of life, including the family, the workplace and the society at large. It is therefore crucial not to overlook gender as an aspect of men’s social identity. This fact is, indeed, often overlooked, because the tendency is to consider male characteristics and attributes as the norm, and those of women as a variation of the norm.
But the lives of men are just as strongly influenced by gender as those of women. Societal norms and conceptions of masculinity and expectations of men as leaders, husbands or sons create demands on men and shape their behaviour. Men are too often expected to concentrate on the material needs of their families, rather than on the nurturing and caring roles assigned to women. Socialization in the family and later in schools promotes risk-taking behaviour among young men, and this is often reinforced through peer pressure and media stereotypes. So the lifestyles that men’s roles demand often result in their being more exposed to greater risks of morbidity and mortality than women. These risks include ones relating to accidents, violence and alcohol consumption.
Men also have the right to assume a more nurturing role, and opportunities for them to do so should be promoted. Equally, however, men have responsibilities in regard to child health and to their own and their partners’ sexual and reproductive health. Addressing these rights and responsibilities entails recognizing men’s specific health problems, as well as their needs and the conditions that shape them. The adoption of a gender perspective is an important first step; it reveals that there are disadvantages and costs to men accruing from patterns of gender difference. It also underscores that gender equality is concerned not only with the roles, responsibilities and needs of women and men, but also with the interrelationships between them.
Back to page
Resources
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Footer menu
Transparency Portal
Report wrongdoing
Sitemap
Terms of Use
UNFPA Privacy Policy
Transparency
UNFPA worldwide
Contact
Donate
© All rights reserved. 2022
Follow us
Join our mailing list
Subscribe
We use cookies and other identifiers to help improve your online experience. By using our website you agree to this.
To learn more, including how to change your settings, see our
cookie policy
Accept
X