Why gender diversity initiatives need a reboot | EY - Global
skip to the content
EY Homepage
Search
Open search
Close search
See all results in Search Page
Close search
No results have been found
Recent searches
See all results for
Topics
General
People
Trending
8 transformative actions to take in 2023
16 Dec 2022
Consulting
How can slowing climate change accelerate your financial performance?
2 Nov 2022
Sustainability
How to shift strategy for a new geostrategic era in 2023
13 Dec 2022
Geostrategy
Open Navigation Menu
Close Navigation Menu
Insights
Insights
Asking the better questions that unlock new answers to the working world's most complex issues.
Explore
Trending topics
Technology
Transformation
Long-term value
Sustainability
Trust
Purpose
See more Trending topics
C-suite agendas
CEO
CFO
Operations leaders
Technology leaders
EY Center for board matters
See more
C-suite agendas
Back Insights
Services
Services
EY helps clients create long-term value for all stakeholders. Enabled by data and technology, our services and solutions provide trust through assurance and help clients transform, grow and operate.
Explore
Strategy by EY-Parthenon
Strategy by EY-Parthenon
Strategy consulting
Corporate and growth strategy
Transaction strategy and execution
Restructuring and turnaround strategy
Industry strategy
Digital strategy
Commercial strategy
More about EY-Parthenon
Close Strategy by EY-Parthenon
Consulting
Consulting
Analytics consulting services
Customer experience
Cybersecurity, strategy, risk, compliance and resilience
Digital transformation
Risk consulting services
Supply chain and operations
Technology transformation
Transformation platform
Explore Consulting
Close Consulting
People and workforce
People and workforce
Change management and experience
HR transformation
Integrated workforce mobility
Learning and development consulting
Recognition and reward advisory
Workforce analytics
Explore People and workforce
Close People and workforce
Transactions and corporate finance
Transactions and corporate finance
Corporate finance
Divestments and carve-outs
Sustainability and ESG Services
M&A advisory
M&A integration
M&A technology and tools
M&A advanced analytics
Capital allocation
Value creation, preservation and recovery
Explore Transactions and corporate finance
Close Transactions and corporate finance
Assurance
Assurance
Audit services
Climate change and sustainability services
Financial accounting advisory services
Forensic and integrity services
Private client audit experience
Long-term value metrics creation
Explore Assurance
Close Assurance
Tax
Tax
Tax planning
Tax function operations
Tax policy and controversy
Global trade
Global tax reform
Tax compliance
Transaction tax
Private tax services
Explore Tax
Close Tax
Law
Law
Corporate and commercial law
Digital law
Labor and employment law
Legal operations
Transaction law
Explore Law
Close Law
Technology
Technology
Advanced technology
Audit technology
Tax technology
Connected capital technologies
Technology transformation
Alliances and ecosystems
Close Technology
Managed services
Managed services
Tax managed services
Finance managed services
Risk managed services
Legal managed services
Explore Managed Services
Close Managed services
EY Private
EY Private
EY Private client experience
Audit experience: Designed for private
Tax services: Designed for private
Family enterprise
IPO
Entrepreneurship
Explore EY Private
Close EY Private
EY Sustainability
EY Sustainability
Climate change and sustainability services
Sustainable finance
ESG strategy services
Supply chain transformation
Tax services
Legal services
Global renewables
Climate and decarbonization
Environment, Health and Safety
Explore EY Sustainability
Close EY Sustainability
Spotlight
Strategy, transaction and transformation consulting
Technology transformation
Tax function operations
Climate change and sustainability services
EY Ecosystems
Business transformation platform
Back Services
Industries
Industries
Discover how EY insights and services are helping to reframe the future of your industry.
Explore
Advanced manufacturing and mobility
Consumer
Energy and resources
Financial services
Government and infrastructure
Health sciences and wellness
Private equity
Technology, media and telecommunications
Case studies
Consulting How blockchain helped a gaming platform become a game changer
Deep Ghumman
Strategy and Transactions M&A strategy helped a leading Nordic SaaS business grow
Eric Sanschagrin
Consulting How to use IoT and data to transform the economics of a sport
Robin Hutchinson
Back Industries
Careers
Careers
We bring together extraordinary people, like you, to build a better working world.
Explore
What you can do here
What it's like to work here
How to join us
Alumni
Job search
Spotlight
Experienced professionals
EY-Parthenon careers
Student and entry level programs
Talent community
Back Careers
About us
About us
At EY, our purpose is building a better working world. The insights and services we provide help to create long-term value for clients, people and society, and to build trust in the capital markets.
Explore
Our purpose
Our values
Our people
Performance and impact
Newsroom
Locations
Connect with us
Spotlight
EY is now carbon negative
Carmine Di Sibio
How do you move long-term value creation from ambition to action?
Carmine Di Sibio
Back About us
Search
Open search
Close search
My EY
My EY
Open country language switcher
Close country language switcher
Select your location
Close country language switcher
No search results have been found
Local sites
Welcome to EY Global (EN)
You are visiting EY Global (EN)
7 minute read
8 Mar 2021
Link copied
Why gender diversity initiatives need a reboot
Nobuko Kobayashi
By
Nobuko Kobayashi
EY Asia-Pacific Strategy Execution Leader
Multi-cultural thought leader in Japan. Connector and relationship builder. Embodies a bridge that connects Japan with the outside world. Specializes in the Consumer sector.
7 minute read
8 Mar 2021
Related topics
Gender equality
Diversity and inclusiveness
Workforce
Link copied
Upvote
Show resources
While female representation is rising, diversity fatigue is in the air. How can we blast past tokenism to maximize diversity’s power?
In brief
Diversity fatigue is setting in as some governments roll back targets; for example, Japan removed its target of 30% female managers by 2020.
A 30% target is the threshold to move beyond tokenism and achieve the benefit of diverse viewpoints, leading to greater innovation and better outcomes.
Achieving a 30% target requires planning across all levels, yet only 18% of companies have structured programs; we must remove male bias and keep investing.
Diversity fatigue is in the air. World Economic Forum predicts that it will take 99.5 years to achieve gender parity. After 17 years of slow improvement, the Japanese government quietly removed the so-called “20-30” numerical target – 30% women ratio in managerial positions by 2020.
On the other hand, there is also good news. Globally in 2021, prominent companies increasingly have women CEOs, including a major semiconductor manufacturer and a social media platform. In Japan, the corporate governance reform pushed up the rate of women directors on the board at TOPIX 100 companies, having nearly doubled over the last 5 years to 12.9%. The moaning is audible – are we there yet? Have we not achieved enough already?
The answer, sadly, is no. And now is exactly the time to double down – the power of diversity shines best in a knowledge-based, post-industrial capitalism. But to overcome the road bump of diversity fatigue, we must move quickly from tokenism to pragmatism.
Optics can be misleading. While female CEOs are cause for celebration as symbols of women’s advancement in the corporate world, they alone cannot be a major force in converting the power of diversity into performance. In fact, a research study from The Peterson Institute for International Economics and EY shows that a CEO’s gender does not have a significant impact on firm profitability, when controlling for gender balance elsewhere in the firm. The largest gains are associated with group KPIs, first the proportion of female executives, followed by the proportion of female board members.
Financial advantage
15%
boost to profitability can be expected for firms with 30% women leadership.
The correlation between the diversity level of the leadership group and the performance is powerful and repeatable. The same study analyzes that a profitable firm with 30% of its leaders being female could expect to add a 15% boost to profitability compared with an otherwise similar firm with no female leaders. There is a rationale to the 30% target, which has been adopted by prominent pro-diversity organizations such as 30% Club. It is the level at which minority group members feel comfortable speaking their mind. Let’s take the typical number of corporate board seats in a Japanese company, 10. One woman is a lonely voice, silently pressured to represent half the population. Two women board members risk being pitched against each other. Therefore, 30% – more than three out of 10, – enables a woman’s voice to be heard as an individual, the gender factor gently and indirectly influencing her views.
Multiple layers of causality link diversity in leadership to better financial outcomes. First, women’s eyes may keep the company from committing an obvious mistake as a result of a gender data gap. In one example, voice recognition software in cars did not respond to women’s voices and had to be reconfigured. Why? Because an all-male engineering team designed it and demo-ed it with all-male executives. Corporate life is rife with such examples, which not only adds cost to operations but also incurs missed revenue.
Even more importantly, study after study shows that diversity helps innovation. Columbia University research statistically proves that the more a firm’s strategy is focused on innovation, the more that female representation in management improves the performance. Clearly, diversity repels group-think, which stifles innovation.
Today, we cannot overemphasize the link between diversity and innovation. Digitized automation transforms our labor market; the source of competitiveness is no longer uniform and diligent workers performing formulaic work. Instead, human creativity, assisted by AI analytics, drives competitiveness. In this post-industrial world, diversity holds the key to differentiation.
To get over the diversity complacency, the path is clear. We need to blast past the tokenism. Achieving a 30% rate of women in leadership requires careful planning on all layers. Yet, EY’s Women Fast Forward Cross-Sector Survey in 2015 found that only 18% of surveyed companies reported having structured, formal programs to identify and develop women for leadership.
Related article
Nurturing leadership
18%
of surveyed companies reported having structured, formal programs to identify and develop women for leadership.
Diversity fatigue is also caused by the organizational effort of not being met by results. In this light, it is important to recognize that male bias clouds the prioritization of diversity initiatives. For example, the same EY Women Fast Forward survey found that men and women see the barriers to diversity aspirations quite differently. Nearly half of men cited conflicts of raising a family and a shortage of female talent as major obstacles to diversity. Women did not agree – citing unsupportive culture and organizational bias at the top. In fact, only 7% of women raised the shortage of female talent as an obstacle in contrast with 43% of men.
Lack of female talent is unlikely to be a major challenge. Rather, it is about aligning the initiatives with the desired outcome. Investment in an on-site office nursery is one mother-friendly idea, but women may benefit more from having mentorship from a senior leader – tops of the enabler list in our survey according to women, although bottom according to men.
The power of diversity is proven. We must tap into it more than ever in the age of post-industrialization. But to do so, we must ask ourselves – are we not fooling ourselves with optics, and are we investing in the right initiatives?
Summary
So much accomplished, but a long way to go – it is easy to fall into complacency when it comes to gender diversity in the corporate world. But now is the time to double-down; success in post-industrial capitalism calls for innovation best achieved via confluence of diverse ideas. Having 30% women in leadership adds 15% boost in profitability compared to having no women leaders. Moving beyond tokenism, we must actively address the gender gap brought about by lack of diversity in leadership. More can be done to advance women’s career when we remove male bias from gender balance initiatives.
About this article
Nobuko Kobayashi
By
Nobuko Kobayashi
EY Asia-Pacific Strategy Execution Leader
Multi-cultural thought leader in Japan. Connector and relationship builder. Embodies a bridge that connects Japan with the outside world. Specializes in the Consumer sector.
Related topics
Gender equality
Diversity and inclusiveness
Workforce
Link copied
Upvote
Read more
Read more
Connect with us
Our locations
My EY
Site map
Legal and privacy
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients.
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
YouTube
EY | Assurance | Consulting | Strategy and Transactions | Tax
About EY
EY is a global leader in assurance, consulting, strategy and transactions, and tax services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities.
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com.
© EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved.
EYG/OC/FEA no.
ED MMYY
This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice.
Get our latest newsletter direct to your inbox
Sticky Bar Close button
Editor's Picks
Subscribe
Sticky Bar Close button
!{StickyBar-Expand-btn}
Welcome to EY.com
In addition to cookies that are strictly necessary to operate this website, we use the following types of cookies to improve your experience and our services: Functional cookies to enhance your experience (e.g. remember settings), and Performance cookies to measure the website's performance and improve your experience., and Marketing/Targeting cookies, which are set by third parties with whom we execute marketing campaigns and allow us to provide you with content relevant to you.
We have detected that Do Not Track/Global Privacy Control is enabled in your browser; as a result, Marketing/Targeting cookies, which are set by third parties with whom we execute marketing campaigns and allow us to provide you with content relevant to you, are automatically disabled.
You may withdraw your consent to cookies at any time once you have entered the website through a link in the privacy policy, which you can find at the bottom of each page on the website.
Review our cookie policy for more information.
Customize cookies
I decline optional cookies
I accept all cookies