Gender diversity
Skip to main content
Skip to log on
Skip to search
Accessibility at CommBank
Banking
Home loans
Insurance
Investing & super
Business
Institutional
Log on
NetBank log on
CommBiz log on
CommSec log on
Banking
Home loans
Insurance
Investing & super
Business
Institutional
Locate us
Help & support
CommBank Search. Dialog start.
Search CommBank. Start typing…
Popular searches
Travel insurance
Foreign exchange calculator
Discharge/ Refinance authority form
Activate a CommBank card
Cardless cash
Interest rates & fees
Help & support
Locate us
Contact us
About us
/
Careers
/
Gender diversity
Gender equality at CommBank
We believe that all genders benefit from gender equality.
Our commitment
Our people & initiatives
Key representation stats
Beyond the numbers
Employee-led diversity networks
Browse jobs
Join our Talent Community
Our commitment
We want our people to feel respected, safe and included at work and our Gender Equality Action Plan outlines our commitment through:
Challenging gender stereotypes to promote equality. For example, our Parental Leave Policy is inclusive of all genders and we encourage gender neutral parental care, men’s participation in caring, and recognise a broad definition of families.
Strengthening positive and equal relationships through our Next Chapter Program, supporting employees and customers affected by domestic and family violence and financial abuse.
Championing equal opportunities at work by educating our leaders about inclusive decision-making, pay equity analysis, and monitoring gender equality in leadership.
Listening to our people to understand their experiences through regular listen and learn sessions, and by analysing data from our Your Voice engagement survey.
Gender equality in governing bodies with the CommBank Board and other boards to achieve 40% female membership, 40% male membership, and 20% of any gender that holds the relevant skills and experience.
We can. Together.
Having achieved our 2020 goals, we now aspire for Executive Manager roles and above to reflect the Australian working population. We have set a goal of achieving 47%-50% gender equality in Executive Manager and above roles by 2025 – a goal that is gender inclusive to consider people who do not identify with a binary gender (male or female).
Meet our people
Discover how our female leaders have owned their careers and reached their professional goals
Hear from Mike Vacy-Lyle our Group Executive for Business Banking on the importance of collectively striving for gender equality
The advice four of our female technologists would have given their younger selves
Meet Malini: One of our leaders making a difference for our multicultural communities and our people
CommBank Initiatives
Women In Focus – empowering women led business to access resources, skills and support
Our Career Comeback Program is a paid program for experienced professionals who’ve taken a career break of two years or more, and are looking to return to the workforce
Hear how some of our people have been supported through mentoring programs
Learn more about CBA and Telstra’s annual ‘Girls in Tech’ event
Hear rich, relatable stories of leading women, to ignite your own leadership
Key representation stats
* These stats are representative of FY20.
Beyond the numbers
We've recently been recognised by both FlexCareers and WORK180 for our commitment to flexibility, diversity & inclusion.
Through FlexCareers, we’ve been awarded the FlexReady Certification, which recognises our commitment to, and our role as a leading employer in flexible workplace practices.
To receive the certification, companies must prove they’ve passed the FlexReady change management program or satisfy eight criteria (pertaining to the company’s flex work data, strategy and framework, leadership behaviours, training and more).
We've also been accredited by WORK180 as an “endorsed employer for women”. To receive this endorsement employers must prove their commitment to diversity, inclusion and equality.
Employee-led diversity networks
Our six employee-led diversity networks play a vital role in creating an inclusive culture. They do this by:
Elevating the voices of our people to ensure their experience at work is heard
Promoting respect and inclusion on days of significance
Supporting the Group Inclusion and Diversity strategy and action plans, which includes partnering with community organisations and academic experts to inform our approach.
AdvantAge: Life-stage and age inclusion
ENABLE: Accessibility and inclusion
Mosaic: Cultural diversity and inclusion
Unity: LGBTI inclusion (sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression)
WeCan: Women can, men can, we can – changing the conversation about gender equality because it benefits everyone
Yana Budjari: Our network supporting our commitment to the Reconciliation Action Plan
Learn more about
Women In Focus – We empower women-led businesses with access to the resources, skills and supporters you need for success.
Next Chapter – Our commitment to support people in Australia affected by financial abuse to begin their next chapter and achieve long-term financial independence.
Supporting the wellbeing of new parents – resources built for our working parents and now available for all.
Supporting our people when it matters most – Through the ups and downs of starting a family.
Refer to our 2021 CBA Annual Report for more information on our progress and diversity metrics.
Awards & recognition
We can help
Search & Apply
Your questions answered
How to apply
Contact us
Back to top
QUICK LINKS
Security & scams
Help & support
Financial assistance
Complaints & compliments
Payment services availability
ABOUT US
About CommBank
Careers at CommBank
Corporate responsibility
Newsroom
Investor centre
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Accessibility
Important documents
Banking Code of Practice
Cookies policy
Privacy statement
FOLLOW US
Twitter
Facebook
Linkedin
Youtube
Instagram
CommBank acknowledges the Traditional Owners of the lands across Australia as the continuing custodians of Country and Culture. We pay our respect to First Nations peoples and their Elders, past and present.
©2023 Commonwealth Bank of Australia ABN 48 123 123 124 AFSL and Australian credit licence 234945
Commonwealth Bank