Consequences of the greenhouse effect - Iberdrola
saltar.contenido
Share:Share:
I want to send by email
I want to send by email
LinkedIn
LinkedIn
Share in Twitter.
Share in Twitter.
Share in Facebook.
Share in Facebook.
Whatsapp
Whatsapp
Customers
Talent
Press room
en
es
pt
About us
Sustainability
Social commitment
Innovation
Corporate governance
Shareholders and Investors
Buscar
en
es
pt
Searching
Search Field What are you looking for?
Oculta la búsqueda
Search suggestions
About us
Our company
Leaders in renewables
Corporate purpose and values
Stakeholders
ESG in Iberdrola
Strategic Plan 2023-2025
Management team
Our history
Our brand
Our Activity
Offshore wind
Green hydrogen
Onshore wind
Smart grids
Photovoltaic
Hydroelectric power
Smart solutions for our customers
Where we are
Our facilities
Corporate headquarters
Group companies
Our Group Offices
Sustainability
Energy transition
Committed to the SDGs
What is the 2030 Agenda
Climate change
COP27
Climate action
Negotiations and Climate Policies
Initiatives and Institutions
Climate awareness
Circular Economy
Environment
World Environment Day
Biodiversity
Energy efficiency
Water usage
Environmental management
Management and Nuclear Indicators
Sustainable management
Sustainability scorecard
Indexes and data of sustainability
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism (WEF)
Quality
Sustainable mobility
Social commitment
Human Rights
Diversity and inclusion
Social contribution
Women's sport
Iberdrola Supera Awards
Women's football
Women's Universe Tour
Paralympic sport
Corporate volunteering
Disadvantaged groups
'Electricity for all' Programme
Social projects and awareness
Foundations
Innovation
Innovation in our businesses
Renewables
Networks
Generation and Retail
Other areas
PERSEO: Startup programme
Investment Portfolio
Venture Builder
Startup Challenge
Pilot projects
Open Innovation and partnerships
Global Smart Grids Innovation Hub
Iberdrola Innovation Middle East
Solutions development program
People, premises and partners
Digital transformation
Innovation Report 2020-2022
Corporate governance
Ethics, transparency and good governance
Governance and Sustainability System
By-Laws
Purpose
Environment and Climate Action
Social Commitment
Corporate Governance
The Driving Ideas of the Governance and Sustainability System
General Shareholders' Meeting
Documentation
Participation in the Meeting
Viewing and Results
Historical (2021-2017)
Shareholder's rights and duties
Board of Directors
Composition
Executive Committee
Audit and Risk Supervision Committee
Appointments Committee
Remuneration Committee
Sustainable Development Committee
Group structure
Shareholders and Investors
Fact sheet
Dividend
Iberdrola Retribución Flexible
Engagement dividend
Previous dividends
The share
Price
Stock market information
Share capital
Shareholders
OLS Shareholder's Club
Shareholder's bulletin
Virtual Shareholders Meetings
Recognitions and awards
Shareholders & Investors' calendar
Investors
Capital Markets & ESG Day
Fixed income
Analysts
Analysts' opinion
Webinars
Operational and financial information
Annual reports
Results
Financial and operational data
Factbook
Sustainability indicators
Notifications sent to CNMV
Inside information
Other relevant information
Communications prior to February 2020
Customers
Talent
International Graduate Program
Careers Site
Enlace externo, se abre en ventana nueva.
Careers Site: Privacy policy
Our Corporate Culture
Work-Life balance and Equality
Diversity and inclusion in the workplace
Occupational safety and health
Career advancement
Training and talent development
Internship Students Programs
International Master's Scholarship Programme 2023
Iberdrola U
Main academic agreements
Young entrepreneurs
Iberdrola Chairs
Research and Development projects
Innovation and Training Campus
Press room
News
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
Chairman's area
News
Pictures
Videos
Social Media
Competition rules
Press contact
Multimedia
Pictures
Videos
Infographics
Suppliers
Do you want to become an Iberdrola supplier?
Bids and Tenders
Contracting terms
MInfo: Orders, invoices and payments
Sustainable value chain
Human rights and business
Supplier's Code of Ethics
Awards for Supplier of the Year
Culture
Iberdrola Art Collection
Art, patronage and sponsorship
With Guggenheim Bilbao Museum
With the Prado Museum
With the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum
With the Sorolla Museum
Other cultural projects
Specialized publications
Style Guide
Law for Engineers
Law in the Military
Electricity. Basic Manual for Lawyers
The Spanish Protectorate in Morocco
Estás en
Iberdrola
Sustainability
Greenhouse effect: what it is, how it occurs and consequences
Consequences of the greenhouse effect
GREENHOUSE EFFECT
The consequences of the greenhouse effect: from desertification to floods
#nature
Human action is causing an increase in global temperature. For that reason, the greenhouse effect, far from being our great ally as was the case in the past, is now a risk to our survival. The flooding of coastal cities, the desertification of fertile areas, the melting of glacial masses and the proliferation of devastating hurricanes are just some of the main consequences.
Global warming is having a profound impact on the processes of soil degradation and is contributing to the desertification of the most arid areas on the planet.
The increase in the global temperature of the planet produces a rise in the level of the sea, which will cause the disappearance of islands and coastal cities.
FIGHTING THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
Would you like someone to tell you about it? Listen to this article. For those who want to change the world.
Podcast voice transcription [PDF]
Want to change the world?
Listen to our podcasts and understand everything around you
WHAT IS THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
The greenhouse effect is a natural phenomenon and is beneficial for us. Certain gases in the atmosphere retain part of the thermal radiation emitted by the Earth's surface after being heated by the sun, this maintains the planet's temperature at a level suitable for the development of life. Human action — through activities such as industry, intensive agriculture and livestock farming, or transport —, however, has increased the presence of these gases in the atmosphere — mainly, carbon dioxide and methane as a result of the burning of fossil fuels such as coal, oil or gas —, causing them to retain more heat and to increase the temperature on the planet. This is what we know as global warming.
HOW THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT IS PRODUCED
GREEN HOUSE EFFECT
Numerous gases that are part of the atmosphere absorb the Earth’s infra-red radiation, producing an increase in the temperature of the surface of our planet and the atmospheric layer that surrounds it
Layer of
greenhouse gases
Carbon dioxideWater vapourNitrous oxideMethane
Radiation escaping into space
Irradiate heat into surface
Solar radiation
Evolution of CO
2 (Gt)
CO2 is the gas that contributes the most to the greenhouse effect. We present the history of emissions in the world during the last decade
GREEN HOUSE EFFECT
Numerous gases that are part of the atmosphere absorb the Earth’s infra-red radiation, producing an increase in the temperature of the surface of our planet and the atmospheric layer that surrounds it
Layer of
greenhouse gases
Carbon dioxideWater vapourNitrous oxideMethane
RRadiation escaping into space
Calor irradiado a la superficie
Solar radiation
Evolution of CO
2 (Gt)
CO2 is the gas that contributes the most to the greenhouse effect. We present the history of emissions in the world during the last decade
SEE INFOGRAPHIC: Do you know how the greenhouse effect is produced? [PDF] External link, opens in new window.
CONSEQUENCES OF THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
The increase in the average temperature on Earth is changing living conditions on the planet. Let's find out about the main consequences of this phenomenon:
Thawing of glacial masses
Glaciers retreat also has its own consequences: reduced albedo — the percentage of solar radiation ​​​​​​​ that the earth's surface reflects or returns to the atmosphere —, a global rise in sea level and the release of large methane columns are only some of them, however, they are all dramatic for the planet.
Flooding of islands and coastal cities
According to Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2014), during the period 1901-2010 the global average sea level rose 19 centimetres. It is estimated that by 2100 the sea level will be between 15 and 90 centimetres higher than it is now and will threaten 92 million people.
Hurricanes will be more devastating
The intensification of the greenhouse effect does not cause these extreme climatic events, but it does increase there intensity. Hurricanes formation are connected with sea temperature — they only form over waters that have a temperature of at least 26.51 ºC —.
Migration of species
Many animal species will be forced to migrate in order to survive the changes in the main climatic patterns altered by the progressive increase in temperatures. Human beings will also have to move: according to the World Bank, by 2050 the number of people forced to flee their homes due to extreme droughts or violent floods could reach 140 million.
Desertification of fertile areas
Global warming is having a profound impact on the processes of soil degradation and is contributing to the desertification of areas on the planet, a phenomenon that destroys all the biological potential of affected regions, turning them into barren and unproductive land. As recognised by the UN on the occasion of the World Day to Combat Desertification in 2018, 30% of land has been degraded and lost its real value.
Impact on agriculture and livestock
Global warming has already altered the length of the growing season in large parts of the planet. Similarly, changes in temperatures and seasons are influencing the proliferation of insects, invasive weeds and diseases that can affect crops. The same is happening with livestock: climatic changes are directly affecting important species in multiple ways: reproduction, metabolism, diseases, etc.
Thawing will produce a global rise in sea level and the release of more methane, among other consequences.
The intensity of hurricanes will be greater due to the greenhouse effect.
Many animal species will migrate as consequence of the high temperatures.
With global warming, insects, invasive weeds and diseases will affect crops.
CONSEQUENCES OF THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT ON HUMAN HEALTH
The greenhouse effect is also directly affecting human health through:
Food shortages
The United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) states that climate change is raising serious doubts about food availability: in its last biennial report on the state of world food and agriculture, it warns that a decline in agricultural production would result in food shortages, most severely affecting sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.
The spread of diseases and pandemics
In addition to the problems derived directly from pollution, the World Health Organization (WHO) states that global warming will cause infectious diseases such as malaria, cholera or dengue to spread to many more areas of the planet. On the other hand, extreme heat will increase and aggravate cardiovascular and respiratory problems.
The decrease in agricultural and livestock production will bring about the food shortage.
Global warming will spread infectious diseases across the planet.
HOW TO SOLVE THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
Reducing emissions of the so-called greenhouse gases, such as CO2 or CH4 is not the only solution to curb the greenhouse effect. International organisations also agree on the following recommendations:
Use renewable energy. They are driving our progress in preserving the environment and alleviating the crisis of exhaustible energy sources, such as gas and oil.
Use public transport and other non-polluting means, such as electric vehicles or bicycles.
Promote ecological awareness among citizens and different administrations.
Commit to recycling and the circular economy.
Reduce the consumption of meat and the food waste.
Consume organic products.
Climate action is synonymous with any policy, measure or programme that works to reduce greenhouse gases, builds resilience to climate change or supports and finances those objectives. The Paris Agreement (2015) was the first major international agreement towards those ends. At COP21, when it was signed, 174 countries and the European Union agreed to work with the goal of keeping global warming below 2°C.
Within its climate action, the Iberdrola group is committed to becoming carbon neutral by 2030 in Europe, it has also committed to reducing its global CO2 emissions intensity to 50g/kWh — which would be 70g/kWh by the end of 2025 — until it becomes carbon neutral globally by 2050. The company has also set a target to reduce absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which has been approved by the Science Based Target initiative.
Subscribe to our Newsletter!
Subscribe
I have read and accept the
Newsletter’s privacy policy
This page is protected by reCAPTCHA and the
Privacy Policy
and the
Google Terms of Service .
Energy transition
Committed to the SDGs
What is the 2030 Agenda
Climate change
COP27
Climate action
Negotiations and Climate Policies
COP26
COP25
COP24
COP23
COP22
COP21
Initiatives and Institutions
Climate awareness
Renewable Energy Education Centres
EducaClima
Learn about climate change
Climate change podcasts
Circular Economy
Environment
World Environment Day
Biodiversity
Conservation Principle
Management Approach
Interaction with Biodiversity
Action Plans
Trees Programme
Occupation of Protected Areas
Habitats and Species
Energy efficiency
Water usage
Environmental management
Environmental Footprint
Certifications and Verifications
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Report
Intensity emissions
Management and Nuclear Indicators
Nuclear Safety Directive
Nuclear Safety Management
Directive for Radioactive Waste and Spent Nuclear Fuel
Management of Radioactive Waste
Nuclear Indicators
Sustainable management
Sustainability scorecard
Indexes and data of sustainability
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism (WEF)
Quality
Sustainable mobility
Ir al inicio de la página
SUBSCRIBE
Agenda
Glossary
Privacy Policy
Legal Information
Cookies
Accesibility
Contact
© 2023 Iberdrola, S.A. All rights reserved.