Overview of greenhouse gases - NAEI, UK
Skip navigation to content
Search
Search
Home
Overview
About the Inventory
Data
Reports
You are here:
NAEI OverviewOverview of greenhouse gases
NAEI homeOverview
Overview of air pollutants
Overview of greenhouse gases
Making projections
Overview of greenhouse gases
You can select information about greenhouse gases pollutants below. Each description page will allow you to find out more about the pollutant itself, related issues and a timeseries graph.
Greenhouse gases
Carbon Dioxide as Carbon
Methane
NF3
Nitrous Oxide
Sulphur hexafluoride
Sector, Gas and Uncertainty Summary Factsheets
Factsheets for each
National Communication sector and greenhouse gas
(GHG), reported on within the
most recent UK Greenhouse Gas Inventory,
are
Available to view here
The Sector, Gas and Uncertainty Summary Factsheets provide a snapshot of historic emissions and their
sources, data sets and methods used for estimating emissions, uncertainties and
improvements associated with them. More detailed information is available in
the latest National Inventory Report in the Reports section.
Introduction
The GHG inventory covers the seven direct greenhouse gases under the Kyoto Protocol:
Carbon dioxide (CO2)
Methane (CH4)
Nitrous oxide (N2O)
Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs)
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)
Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6)
Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3)
These gases contribute directly to climate change owing to their positive radiative forcing effect. HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 are collectively known as the 'F-gases'.
In general terms, the largest contributor to global warming is carbon dioxide which makes it the focus of many climate change initiatives.  Methane and nitrous oxide contribute to a smaller proportion, typically <20%, and the contribution of f–gases is even smaller (in spite of their high Global Warming Potentials) at <5% of the total.
Also reported are four indirect greenhouse gases:
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
Carbon monoxide (CO)
Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC)
Sulphur dioxide (SO2)
Nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and NMVOCs are included in the inventory because they can produce increases in tropospheric ozone concentrations and this increases radiative forcing (warming of the atmosphere).
Sulphur dioxide is included because it contributes to aerosol formation which can either warm (through absorption of solar radiation on dark particles) or cool (from forming cloud droplets and reflecting radiation) the atmosphere.
Targets
Countries that have signed and ratified
the Kyoto Protocol are legally bound to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions
by an agreed amount. A single European Union Kyoto Protocol reduction target
for greenhouse gas emissions of -8% compared to base-year levels was negotiated
for the first commitment period, and a Burden Sharing Agreement allocated the
target between Member States of the European Union. Under this agreement, the
UK reduction target was -12.5% on base-year levels. The first commitment period
of the Kyoto Protocol was from 2008 to 2012.
The second commitment period of the
Kyoto Protocol applies from 2013 to 2020 inclusive. For this second commitment
period, the EU and the Member States communicated an independent quantified
economy-wide emission reduction target of a 20 percent emission reduction by
2020 compared with 1990 levels (base year) (“the EU2020 target”). The EU2020
target is based on the understanding that it will be fulfilled jointly by the
European Union and the Member States. The EU2020 target is unconditional and
supported by EU legislation in place since 2009 (The EU Climate and Energy
Package). This Kyoto target covered the UK, and the relevant Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for whom the ratification is extended.
Get data on Kyoto emissions
The Climate Change Act
became UK Law on the 26th November 2008. This legislation introduced a new,
more ambitious and legally binding target for the UK to reduce GHG emissions to
80% below base year by 2050, with legally binding five year GHG budgets. The
independent Committee on Climate Change (CCC) was set up to advise the UK
Government on the setting and meeting of UK carbon budgets as well as
monitoring progress against them scope and level of UK carbon budgets.
The Climate Change Act was amended in 2019 to revise the greenhouse gas emission reduction target for 2050 from 80% to 100%, i.e. net-zero.
Get data on Carbon Budgets (gov.uk website)
Countries that have signed and ratified the Paris Agreement are asked to declare a Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC), where countries set out what targets they intend to meet to contribute to mitigating climate change, and information on how the country plans to achieve those targets. The UK’s NDC commits the UK to reducing economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions by at least 68% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels.
Get data on Paris emissionsFurther information on the UK's action to tackle climate change can be found on the BEIS website.
Page last modified: 14 October 2022
You may also be
interested in...
UNFCCC GHG reporting requirements
EU GHG reporting requirements (mechanism for monitoring GHG emissions)
GHG inventories from other countries
IPCC National GHG Inventories Programme
© Crown copyright
Terms & conditions
Privacy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility statement
Help
NAEI HelplineNational rate
01235 75 3046
We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use
https://naei.beis.gov.uk/, remember your settings and improve
data services. We also use cookies set by other site
to help us deliver content with their services. For more
detailed information about the cookies we use, see our view and set your cookie options.
Accept all Cookies
Reject all Cookies