Understanding Our Emissions - Environment | seattle.gov
Skip to main content
Services & Information
Departments
Elected Officials
Boards & Commissions
Media Contacts
News
Events
Close
Main Menu
Environment
Green New Deal
Climate Impact Actions
Green New Deal Oversight Board
Buildings & Energy
Building Tune-Ups
About Building Tune-Ups
How to Comply
Building Tune-Up Accelerator Program
Resources
FAQs
Enforcement
Energy Benchmarking
Benchmarking Instructions
Data and Reports
About Benchmarking
Penalties
Benchmarking FAQs
Benchmarking Map and Building Reports
Contact the Benchmarking Team
Seattle Energy Code
Building Performance Standards
Seattle Building Performance Standards Policy Development
Clean Buildings for Washington
Seattle Clean Buildings Accelerator
Seattle's Clean Heat Program
City Facilities
Sustainable Buildings & Sites
Resource Conservation Initiative
Capital Green Toolkit
Resources & Reports
Transportation
Transportation Electrification
Transportation Electrification Blueprint
Supporting Mode Shift
Exploring Road Pricing
Climate Planning
Climate Action Plan
Adaptation
Understanding Our Emissions
Services & Information
Departments
Elected Officials
Boards & Commissions
Media Contacts
News
Events
Office of Sustainability & Environment
Climate Change
Equity & Environment
Sustainable Communities
Environmental Progress
About Us
Home
Climate Change
Climate Planning
Understanding Our Emissions
Seattle releases an analysis of our climate pollution, called a greenhouse gas inventory, every two years. See the tabs below for more context on why this work is important, what our recent analysis is telling us, and the action steps we are committed to. A downloadable version of our most recent report is here.
<
What and Why
Climate Justice
Data
Past Reports
Overview
A greenhouse gas (GHG) is a gas in the atmosphere that traps and holds heat. When we use the phrase greenhouse gas emissions, we are talking about the gasses that are released into the atmosphere primarily as a result of human activities. The more GHGs we release, the more our climate is impacted. We measure our greenhouse gas emissions using a geographic-based emissions inventory to better understand the scope and scale of our local climate footprint, the impact of our actions, opportunities for progress, and the challenges ahead.
The Seattle GHG inventory tracks emissions over three key sectors: transportation, buildings, and waste for a total of over 3 million metric tons of climate pollution emitted and transportation continuing to account for the majority of core emissions. As our population and economy continue to grow, we need to take bolder steps to become a sustainable, healthy, and climate friendly city.
Recent Update
The 2020 GHG Inventory finds a marked decrease in greenhouse gas emissions since the prior 2018 report, the majority of which are likely temporary and primarily attributed to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Transportation (24.5% decrease in emissions)
Seattle’s residents drove significantly less in 2020 primarily due to COVID-19 stay-at-home orders, resulting a 20% decrease in both passenger and freight vehicle miles traveled (VMTs).
Public transit was especially hard hit, and traffic monitors show vehicle volume and personal vehicle travel patterns returning back to baseline.
The 2020 GHG inventory also showed a 5% decrease in emissions per mile, a trend that is likely to continue as vehicles on the road will continue to get gradually more efficient.
Buildings (5% decrease in residential and commercial emissions)
All core building emissions categories decreased except for residential (3% increase), which accounts for the increase in time spent at home as residents who were able adhered to stay-at-home orders and continued working from home.
At the same time, Seattle’s buildings also got more efficient, consuming 5% less energy per capita after normalizing for weather, a trend that is expected to continue, and Seattle City Light's emissions factors changed as the utility reported a resource portfolio with less carbon-intensive electricity compared to 2018.
As with transportation emissions, commercial building emissions are expected to rebound in consequent years.
Waste (12.4% decrease in emissions)
The major factors contributing to the reduction in waste emissions were a decrease in commercial waste due to the pandemic, and a new residential waste composition study, which shows a lower percentage of recyclable and compostable materials entering the waste stream.
Waste emissions account for just 1.2% of total core emissions in this geographic-based emissions inventory, but SPU’s consistent efforts to improve the composition of municipal solid waste have led to a 35.5% reduction in emissions since 2008.
Seattle is also working with a team of local jurisdictions led by King County to develop a Consumption-Based Emissions Inventory, which looks at GHG emissions that come from the products and services we buy and consume here in the city, but may be produced locally or elsewhere. The analysis will provide fresh insight into Seattle’s consumption based emissions sources. The results of this inventory will be posted on this webpage when released
Climate Justice
Climate change is a racial justice issue. Seattle's increasing consumption of fossil gas is harming all of our communities. Yet, we know that our Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) communities are being impacted disproportionately. These communities unequally bear the burden of climate change, air pollution, and environmental degradation.
While our current climate analysis provides us a broad understanding of how our emissions are trending, it is not detailed enough in scope or depth to use as the primary source for making decisions that center racial equity. It is therefore imperative that we center this context when analyzing the results of this inventory and prioritize partnering with BIPOC communities to shape equitable climate policy for the City.
As called for in the Green New Deal Resolution (Res 31895) to address these gaps, OSE is developing a map-based website which will be updated on a quarterly basis to provide more frequent and granular data indicators of emissions in Seattle’s neighborhoods. The “One Seattle Climate Portal” will be released by the end of 2022. Beginning in 2023 the City will develop the next phase of the portal which will incorporate community led data efforts, as well as ways to spatially track city-led investments.
Climate Data Visualizations
All of our inventory data is now available to explore through the dashboards below. The first dashboard displays data on overall emissions trends since the baseline year of 2008. The second dashboard contains a detailed breakdown of emissions by sector, sub-sector, source, and fuel type.
If the dashboards are not displaying correctly in your browser click these links to open in a new tab:
Emissions Trends
Emissions by Sector
Difference between Core and Expanded emissions: Core emissions include the transportation, buildings, and waste sectors. Core emissions sources are those the city can most directly and significantly impact. Expanded emissions include all core emission sectors as well as additional sectors that the City has less direct influence over.
We measure and track Seattle's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a regular basis. These reports identify the source and amount of climate pollution across the city of Seattle.
2018 Community Inventory
2016 Community Inventory
2014 Community Inventory
2012 Community Inventory
2008 Community Inventory
2005 Community & City Operations Inventory
Sustainability and Environment
Jessyn Farrell, Director
Address:
700 5th Avenue, #1868, Seattle, WA, 98104
Mailing Address:
PO Box 94729, Seattle, WA, 98124-4729
Phone: (206) 256-5158
Email: maketa.brazier@seattle.gov
Newsletter Updates
Subscribe
Sign up for the latest updates from Sustainability and Environment
City-Wide Information
Elected Officials
Open Data Portal
Public Records
City News Feed
City Event Calendar
All City Newsletters
View the Departments & Agencies List
Top Requests
Learn About Regional Adaptation Planning
Learn About the City's Climate Action Plan
Learn About the City's Climate Change Strategies
Learn About the Drive Clean Seattle Initiative
We collaborate with City agencies, business groups, nonprofit organizations, and other partners to protect and enhance Seattle's distinctive environmental quality and livability.
© Copyright 1995-2023 City of Seattle
Policies
About Our Digital Properties
Privacy Policy
ADA Notice