Greenhouse Gas Inventories | ddoe
Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website.
Skip to main content
ddoe
Department of Energy & Environment
DC Agency Top Menu
311 Online
Agency Directory
Online Services
Accessibility
Mayor Muriel Bowser
Find a COVID Center Near You
Search form
X
Search
DOEE Home
Environmental ServicesSee All Services A-Z
Air Quality
Environmental Education and Outreach
Lead in the District
Fisheries and Wildlife
Toxic Substances
Water in the District
Sustainability
Vegetation: Trees, Flowers & Plants
Energy in the DistrictClean Energy DC
Utility Affordability Programs
Building Energy Performance & Benchmarking
DC Sustainable Energy Utility
Solar Initiatives
Property Assessed Clean Energy
Energy Choice DC
Buy Green Power
Energy Grid Modernization
ResourcesApplications, Licenses, Permits
Environmental Data & MapsClimate Change
DC Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory
Environmental Maps
Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) Documents
For Businesses
For Residents
Grants and Funding
Plans & Commitments
Publications
Laws & RegulationsAir Quality Regulations
Energy
Fines & Enforcement
Fish & Wildlife
Public Notices & Hearings
Toxic Substances
Water Quality
About DOEEAgency Offices and Divisions
Open Government and FOIA - DOEE
Leading by Example
For the Press
News Room
DOEE Director
Senior Leadership Team
Employment Opportunities
Resources
Applications, Licenses, Permits
Environmental Data & MapsClimate Change
DC Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory
Environmental Maps
Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) Documents
For Businesses
For Residents
Grants and Funding
Plans & Commitments
Publications
Department of Energy & Environment
Office HoursMonday to Friday, 9 am to 5 pm Connect With Us1200 First Street NE,
Washington, DC 20002
Phone: (202) 535-2600
Fax: (202) 535-2881
TTY: (800) 855-1000
Email: [email protected]
Ask the Director
Agency Performance
Amharic (አማርኛ)Chinese (中文)French (Français)Korean (한국어)Spanish (Español)Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)
Richard Jackson - Interim Director
Director
-A +A
Listen
Greenhouse Gas Inventories
DOEE regularly tracks the District’s greenhouse gas emissions in order to measure our progress towards reducing emissions 60% by 2030 and reaching net-zero emissions by 2045. Greenhouse gas inventories identify the major sources of greenhouse gasses and measure how much they pollute. Major sources include energy used by homes and buildings, transportation, and solid waste.
We track emissions across the District using the Global Protocol for Community-Scale Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventories (GPC), as well as from our own government operations, using the Local Government Operations Protocol (LGO Protocol). The first District greenhouse gas inventory was completed for 2006. DOEE releases an annual inventory with data available for 2009-2020.
Progress Towards Emissions Reduction Goals
The District is on track to meet its ambitious goals to reduce emissions by 60% by 2030, and to become carbon neutral by 2045. In 2020, the District saw a 40% decrease in citywide emissions compared to the 2006 baseline inventory, noting 2020 data reflects significant impacts of the COVID-19 public health emergency, particularly in decreased non-residential building energy use and transportation. Analyzing any lasting impacts on the city’s long-term emissions trends will require several years of future data, but overall the District has demonstrated strong progress towards our 2030 goal, with much work still ahead to achieve carbon neutrality.
Emissions Sources in the District
The District’s greenhouse gas inventory tracks emissions by both source and sector: sources refer to the fuels that produce energy, and sectors are the main energy-consuming areas of the economy. In the District, emissions come from three main sectors: buildings, transportation, and waste. In 2020, buildings continued to be the main driver of citywide emissions (72%) followed by transportation (21%) and waste (7%). Within these sectors, the main sources of emissions are electricity (49%), fossil gas (24%), and gasoline (17%).
Additional Resources
CDP: The District, along with major cities from around the world, regularly reports greenhouse gas emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP
Attachment(s):  2006-2020 Greenhouse Gas Inventory 2006-2016 Greenhouse Gas Inventory 2012 - 2013 Inventory Update Fact Sheet 2006-2011 Inventory Update Fact Sheet Related Content: Environmental MapsClimate Change
Foam Free DC
The District has banned the use of food service products made of expanded polystyrene. Read More>>
Our Last Straw
Mayor Bowser Joins Our Last Straw Coalition to Say No to Plastic Straws. Businesses, Nonprofits, Individuals, and DC Government Unite in the Effort to Reduce Plastic Waste in the District. Read More>>
Get RiverSmart
RiverSmart programs offer incentives for reducing stormwater pollution.
Skip the Bag - Save the River
District businesses selling food or alcohol are required to charge $.05 for each disposable paper or plastic carryout bag. Find out about DC's Bag Law.
Twitter
Facebook
Mobile
Maps
Webcasts
RSS
Data
Subscribe
More Resources
Resources
District News
Mayor's Public Schedule
Citywide News
Citywide Calendar
Subscribe to Receive Emails
Subscribe to Text Alerts
Subscribe to Newsletters
District Initiatives
Green DC
Age-Friendly DC
Sustainable DC
Connect DC
Great Streets
Ready DC
About DC
Open DC
Budget
Emancipation
Consumer Protection
Contracts
Property Quest
Contact Us
Agency Directory
Call 311
Contact the Mayor
Contact Agency Directors
FOIA Requests
Report Website Problems
Service Request Center
Accessibility
Privacy and Security
Terms and Conditions
About DC.Gov