Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory | Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs
Skip to content
Site Search *
Menu
Main menuHome
Topics
Publications
Consultations
Contact
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory
Topics:
Statistics
Climate change
Environment statistics
This statistical bulletin is updated annually and outlines key Northern Ireland figures from the Greenhouse Gas Inventories for England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The estimates are produced by Ricardo Energy & Environment and Aether on behalf of the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, the Scottish Government, the Welsh Assembly Government and the Northern Ireland Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs.
What is the Northern Ireland Greenhouse Gas Inventory?
The Northern Ireland Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory contains data detailing greenhouse gas emissions in Northern Ireland from 1990 to the latest reporting year. It is a subset of the UK GHG Inventory, which is produced to fulfil both European Union Monitoring Mechanism (EUMM) and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) reporting requirements the UK has under the Kyoto Protocol. It is compiled in line with international guidance from the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Interactive Dashboard
NI Greenhouse Gas Inventory (new beta version)
User feedback survey
In our ongoing efforts to improve users’ experience, in their interaction with our data, we have developed a new dashboard to present the NI Greenhouse Gas Inventory.  The new dashboard provides improved functionality, visualisations and data granularity.
Please feel free to explore the new look dashboard and we would be grateful if you could complete the survey and provide any feedback that you may have.
These data are for the same period as those included in the existing dashboard below.
NI Greenhouse Gas Inventory (old version)
Publications
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2020 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2019 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2018 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2017 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2016 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2015 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2014 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2013 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2012 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2011 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2010 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2009 statistical bulletin
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2008 statistical bulletin
Note: Each year the greenhouse gas inventory is extended and updated. The whole historical data series is revised to incorporate methodological improvements and new data. This takes into account revisions to the datasets which have been used in its compilation. Therefore, once the latest year’s Inventory is published, the previous version becomes redundant and cannot be used for comparison purposes. However, the latest Inventory contains a single consistent data series going back to 1990 which can be used to examine trends.
Next update
This statistical bulletin will be updated annually.
The 1990-2021 statistical bulletin will be published in June 2023.
The scheduled dates for all upcoming publications are available from the GOV.UK statistics release calendar.
GOV.UK statistics release calendar
Related links
Cross-Departmental Working Group on Climate Change
Northern Ireland carbon intensity indicators
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas projections
Northern Ireland emissions and removals of greenhouse gases from land use, land use change and forestry 1990-2009
Climate change indicators 2010
Public perceptions on climate change in Northern Ireland 2012 (and 2009)
Contact us
Responsible statistician: Hugh McNickleTel: +44 (0)28 90 378346Email: Hugh.McNickle@daera-ni.gov.uk
Related articles
A Green Growth Strategy for Northern Ireland - Balancing our climate, environment and economy
Climate Change statistics
Environment and Heating Statistics from Continuous Household Survey
Environmental statistics
IEGS Releases First Quarterly Report
IEGS Releases Second Report
Interactive Statistics Hub
Northern Ireland carbon intensity indicators
Northern Ireland carrier bag levy statistics
Northern Ireland Climate Change Adaptation Programme
Northern Ireland environmental statistics report
Northern Ireland greenhouse gas projections
Northern Ireland local authority collected municipal waste management statistics
Prosperity Agreements
UK Climate Change Projections
Back to top
nidirect
nibusinessinfo.co.uk
GOV.UK
© Crown Copyright
Terms and Conditions
Privacy
Cookies
Accessibility statement