Greenhouse Emissions Rise to Record, Erasing Drop During Pandemic
Chart of the Week
Regions
Topics
Authors
Archive
IMF Home
Credit: (Photo: AVTG/iStock by Getty Images)
Chart of the Week
Climate change
Greenhouse Emissions Rise to Record, Erasing Drop During Pandemic
The latest data from the IMF's Climate Change Indicators Dashboard provides a worrying picture.
P. Bhanumati,
Mark de Haan,
James William Tebrake
June 30, 2022
Emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases plunged 4.6 percent in 2020, as lockdowns in the first half of the year restricted global mobility and hampered economic activity. Many hoped that this would mark the beginning of a more permanent shift downwards in emissions.
The latest data, however, dashed those hopes. As the
Chart of the Week
shows, annual global greenhouse gas emissions rebounded 6.4 percent last year to a new record, eclipsing the pre-pandemic peak as global economic activity resumed.
Emissions from the manufacturing and the energy sectors contributed the most to recent global increases based on updated information from the IMF’s
Climate Change Indicators Dashboard—a joint effort among national and international statistical organizations to provide timely data to help monitor the transition to lower carbon use.
While total emissions have climbed significantly above pre-pandemic levels, increases from transportation and households were more muted last year as the pandemic weighed on global mobility.
This was particularly evident with the emergence of the omicron variant in the fourth quarter of last year. The public health policy measures in many countries drove down the emissions of households and of the electricity sector.
It will be important to monitor the emissions of both of these sectors as economies fully reopen in the context of historically high fossil fuel-based energy prices.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said that, in the scenarios they assessed, limiting atmospheric warming to the key level of around 1.5 degrees Celsius requires global greenhouse gas emissions to peak by 2025 at the latest.
The new data from the climate dashboard underscore what some scientists have warned: time is running out.
Recent
Climate change
How Economies and Financial Systems Can Better Gauge Climate Risks
January 4, 2023
With the right tools, policymakers can help to manage the climate risks impacting economies and financial systems
Climate change
A
文
Swapping Debt for Climate or Nature Pledges Can Help Fund Resilience
December 14, 2022
Innovative debt swaps can help governments that have limited access to traditional grants or debt relief
Climate change
A
文
Bridging Data Gaps Can Help Tackle the Climate Crisis
November 28, 2022
A new data gaps initiative will play an important role in addressing climate-related data deficits
About
the Blog
IMFBlog is a forum for the views of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) staff and officials on pressing economic and policy issues of the day.
The IMF, based in Washington D.C., is an organization of 190 countries, working to foster global monetary cooperation and financial stability around the world.
The views expressed are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the views of the IMF and its Executive Board. Read More
Climate
Digital Money
Gender
Financial Market
Fiscal Affairs
Global Economy
Monetary Policy
People
IMF Home Page
© Copyright International Monetary Fund