Causes | Facts – Climate Change: Vital Signs of the Planet
NASA
Global Climate Change
Vital Signs of the Planet
Skip Navigation
menu
close modal
Causes
The Causes of Climate Change
Human activities are driving the global warming trend observed since the mid-20th century.
Takeaways
The greenhouse effect is essential to life on Earth, but human-made emissions in the atmosphere are trapping and slowing heat loss to space.
Five key greenhouse gases are CO2, nitrous oxide, methane, chlorofluorocarbons, and water vapor.
While the Sun has played a role in past climate changes, the evidence shows the current warming cannot be explained by the Sun.
The Greenhouse Effect
Increasing Greenhouses Gases Are Warming the Planet
Scientists attribute the global warming trend observed since the mid-20th century to the human expansion of the "greenhouse effect" — warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space.
Life on Earth depends on energy coming from the Sun. About half the light energy reaching Earth's atmosphere passes through the air and clouds to the surface, where it is absorbed and radiated in the form of infrared heat. About 90% of this heat is then absorbed by greenhouse gases and re-radiated, slowing heat loss to space.
Gases that Contribute
The Role of Humans
Human Activity Is the Cause of Increased Greenhouse Gas Concentrations
Over the last century, burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil has increased the concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2). This increase happens because the coal or oil burning process combines carbon with oxygen in the air to make CO2. To a lesser extent, clearing of land for agriculture, industry, and other human activities has increased concentrations of greenhouse gases.
How do we know what greenhouse gas and temperature levels were in the distant past?
Ice cores are scientists’ best source for historical climate data. Other tools for learning about Earth’s ancient atmosphere include growth rings in trees, which keep a rough record of each growing season’s temperature, moisture and cloudiness going back about 2,000 years. Corals also form growth rings that provide information about temperature and nutrients in the tropical ocean. Other proxies, such as benthic cores, extend our knowledge of past climate back about a billion years.
detailed answer
The industrial activities that our modern civilization depends upon have raised atmospheric carbon dioxide levels by nearly 50% since 1750. This increase is due to human activities, because scientists can see a distinctive isotopic fingerprint in the atmosphere.
In its Sixth Assessment Report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, composed of scientific experts from countries all over the world, concluded that it is unequivocal that the increase of CO2, methane, and nitrous oxide in the atmosphere over the industrial era is the result of human activities and that human influence is the principal driver of many changes observed across the atmosphere, ocean, cryosphere and biosphere.
"Since systematic scientific assessments began in the 1970s, the influence of human activity on the warming of the climate system has evolved from theory to established fact."
- Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
The panel's AR6 Working Group I (WGI) Summary for Policymakers report is online at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/.
Is the Sun to Blame?
Evidence Shows That Current Global Warming Cannot Be Explained by Solar Irradiance
Scientists use a metric called Total Solar Irradiance (TSI) to measure the changes in energy the Earth receives from the Sun. TSI incorporates the 11-year solar cycle and solar flares/storms from the Sun's surface.
Studies show that solar variability has played a role in past climate changes. For example, a decrease in solar activity coupled with increased volcanic activity helped trigger the Little Ice Age.
The above graph compares global surface temperature changes (red line) and the Sun's energy that Earth receives (yellow line) in watts (units of energy) per square meter since 1880. The lighter/thinner lines show the yearly levels while the heavier/thicker lines show the 11-year average trends. Eleven-year averages are used to reduce the year-to-year natural noise in the data, making the underlying trends more obvious.
The amount of solar energy that Earth receives has followed the Sun’s natural 11-year cycle of small ups and downs with no net increase since the 1950s. Over the same period, global temperature has risen markedly. It is therefore extremely unlikely that the Sun has caused the observed global temperature warming trend over the past half-century. Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech
But several lines of evidence show that current global warming cannot be explained by changes in energy from the Sun:
Since 1750, the average amount of energy from the Sun either remained constant or increased slightly.
If a more active Sun caused the warming, scientists would expect warmer temperatures in all layers of the atmosphere. Instead, they have observed a cooling in the upper atmosphere and a warming at the surface and lower parts of the atmosphere. That's because greenhouse gases are slowing heat loss from the lower atmosphere.
Climate models that include solar irradiance changes can’t reproduce the observed temperature trend over the past century or more without including a rise in greenhouse gases.
Earth Science in Action
People across the world using NASA data to solve big problems right here on Earth.
More to Explore
Ask NASA Climate
Your questions about climate change answered.
People Profiles
Learn about the people behind NASA Earth science.
Quizzes
Test your knowledge of climate science.
References
References
IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, 2014
United States Global Change Research Program, "Global Climate Change Impacts in the United States," Cambridge University Press, 2009
Naomi Oreskes, "The Scientific Consensus on Climate Change," Science 3 December 2004: Vol. 306 no. 5702 p. 1686 DOI: 10.1126/science.1103618
Friedlingstein et al 2021: “The mass of carbon in the atmosphere increased by 48% from 590 GtC in 1750 to 876 GtC in 2020.” https://essd.copernicus.org/preprints/essd-2021-386/
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency: "Climate Impacts on Agriculture and Food Supply"
Mike Lockwood, “Solar Change and Climate: an update in the light of the current exceptional solar minimum,” Proceedings of the Royal Society A, 2 December 2009, doi 10.1098/rspa.2009.0519;
Judith Lean, “Cycles and trends in solar irradiance and climate,” Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change, vol. 1, January/February 2010, 111-122.
Recent News & Features
Earth's average surface temperature in 2022 tied with 2015 as the fifth warmest on record, according to an analysis by NASA.
news
NASA Says 2022 Fifth Warmest Year on Record, Warming Trend Continues
A case study involving Europe’s largest coal-fired power plant shows space-based observations can be used to track carbon dioxide emissions – and reductions – at the source.
features
NASA Space Missions Pinpoint Sources of CO2 Emissions on Earth
Cameras on the Surface Water and Ocean Topography spacecraft captured the antennas for its main science instrument unfurling in orbit.
news
Watch the Latest Water Satellite Unfold Itself in Space
Led by NASA and the French space agency CNES, the Surface Water and Ocean Topography mission will provide high-definition data on the salt- and fresh water on Earth’s surface.
news
NASA Launches International Mission to Survey Earth's Water
A nonprofit group, Carbon Mapper, will use data from NASA’s EMIT mission, plus current airborne and future satellite instruments, to survey waste sites for methane emissions.
news
NASA Sensors to Help Detect Methane Emitted by Landfills
Meet the scientific heart of the Surface Water and Ocean Topography mission, which will see Earth’s water in higher definition than ever before.
features
Latest International Water Satellite Packs an Engineering Punch
The upcoming Surface Water and Ocean Topography mission will provide a trove of data on Earth’s water resources, even in remote locations. Alaska serves as a case study.
Water Mission to Gauge Alaskan Rivers on Front Lines of Climate Change
Fountains of lava erupted near Mauna Loa’s summit on Nov. 27, 2022, ending a 38-year period of quiet since the volcano’s last eruption.
images of change
Mauna Loa, Hawaii, Erupts
Targeting a Dec. 15 launch, SWOT will survey nearly all water on Earth’s surface for the first time, helping to track how fresh and saltwater bodies change over time.
news
NASA Sets Coverage for SWOT Water Survey Mission Launch
A new video series highlights the hard work and passion of scientists and engineers who are helping to get this remarkable new satellite off the ground.
features
Meet the People Behind the SWOT Water-Tracking Satellite
The international Surface Water and Ocean Topography mission will provide high-definition data on the salt- and fresh water on Earth’s surface.
features
5 Things to Know About How SWOT Will Look at the World's Water
New results show average sea level rise approaching the 1-foot mark for most coastlines of the contiguous U.S. by 2050. The Gulf Coast and Southeast will see the most change.
features
NASA Study: Rising Sea Level Could Exceed Estimates for U.S. Coasts
Get the Newsletter
Stay Connected
Facts
Evidence
Causes
Effects
Scientific Consensus
Global Warming vs. Climate Change
Vital Signs
Questions (FAQ)
Articles
News and Features
Ask NASA Climate
Subscribe
Climate Newsletter Archive
Solutions
Earth Science in Action
Mitigation and Adaptation
Sustainability and Government Resources
Explore
Images of Change
Earth Minute Videos
Interactives
Beautiful Earth Gallery
Earth 360
NASA Science
Science Mission Directorate
NASA Data Resources
Earth System Science
Earth Science Missions
History
People
More
For Media
For Educators
Multimedia
En español
For Kids
About Us
Feedback
|
Awards
|
Sitemap
|
Earth Observatory
|
SEA LEVEL CHANGE
|
Privacy
|
Climate Data Initiative
|
U.S. CLIMATE RESILIENCE TOOLKIT
This website is produced by the Earth Science Communications Team at
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory
|
California Institute of Technology
Site Editor:
Holly Shaftel
Managing Editor:
Susan Callery
Senior Producer:
Randal Jackson
Senior Science Editor:
Daniel Bailey
Science Editor:
Susan Callery
Site last updated: January 12, 2023