Greenhouse Gas Emissions | Government of Prince Edward Island
Contact Us
Français
Search and menus
Search and menus
Prince Edward Island
Site Search
Departments
Search
Go
Select a department
Agriculture and Land
Economic Growth, Tourism and Culture
Education and Lifelong Learning
Environment, Energy and Climate Action
Finance
Fisheries and Communities
Health and Wellness
Justice and Public Safety
Social Development and Housing
Transportation and Infrastructure
Topics menu
Home
About PEI
About PEI Topics
History of Prince Edward Island
Immigrate
Move to PEI
Learn about PEI
PEI Success
About PEI Services
Advisories
Events
Maps of PEI
News
Search the Archives Online
See more About PEI topics
Residents
Resident Topics
Energy Efficiency
Health
Jobs
Jobs in Health Care
Home and Property
Tax Administration and Property Records
Resident Services
Forms
Motor Vehicle Registration Renewal
Publications
Register for a Family Doctor
Get a Driver's License
Report a Road or Traffic Problem
Resident Audiences
Youth
New Residents
Family
Seniors
See more Residents topics
Business
Business Topics
Agriculture, Tourism, Natural Resources and Industry
Business Start-up and Entrepreneurship
HR: Hiring, Managing and Training
Loans and Incentives
Productivity and Innovation
Permits, Licensing and Business Tax
COVID-19 for Workers and Business
Business Services
Apply for License to Operate a Food Premises
View Tender Opportunities
Contact a Business Navigator
Business Segments
Exporting from PEI
Investing in PEI
PEI Economy
Supporting Business
See more Business topics
Government
Government Topics
Agencies, Boards and Commissions
Departments
Executive Council Office
Health PEI
Innovation PEI
Municipal Governments
Premier of Prince Edward Island
Publications
SkillsPEI
Tourism PEI
Government Services
Apply to Engage PEI
Employee Directory
Legislation
News
Orders in Council
Public Disclosures
Request for Information (FOIPP)
Royal Gazette
See more Government topics
Online Services
Government Environment, Energy and Climate Action
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Share this page:Email this page to a friend
Feedback
What are greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions?
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the gases that are released into the atmosphere as a result of certain activities.  GHGs are accumulating in the atmosphere like a blanket, trapping heat and raising global temperatures.
GHG emissions come from activities like driving, heating buildings, powering industry, farming and managing waste.
How much GHG emissions is PEI producing?
PEI's GHG emissions were 1,610 kilotonnes CO2e (1.610 Mt CO2e) in 2020.  PEI's emissions decreased by 51,000 tonnes from last year (a 3.1% decrease).  Emissions are decreasing even though PEI’s population and economy are growing.
Environment and Climate Change Canada generates PEI's GHG information.  They are always working to improve the completeness, consistency, and accuracy of this information.  As a result, these numbers are subject to change.  For more information on Canada's greenhouse gas inventory, visit the Government of Canada's webpage.  Canada's Official Greenhouse Gas Inventory contains the datasets for PEI.
PEI’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions Infographic (2020) provides an overview of PEI’s GHG emissions.
What are our sources of greenhouse gas emissions?
According to the most recent National Inventory Report released by Environment and Climate Change Canada, our GHG emissions come from three main economic sectors:
Transportation (41%)
Transportation is the biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Prince Edward Island.
63% of our transportation emissions come from passenger cars and trucks.
The remaining transportation emissions come mostly from freight transportation (like heavy trucks, marine transport, and aviation).
Agriculture (23%)
Livestock, manure and fertilizer use generate GHG emissions. Livestock produce methane gas and so does their manure. Nitrous oxides are given off when we use synthetic or natural fertilizers, and add manure to croplands and pastures.
88% of PEI’s agricultural emissions come from growing crops and animals.  Fuel use on farms only accounts for 12% of agricultural emissions.
Buildings (19%)
Island homes, businesses, and industries burn fossil fuels like light fuel oil (furnace oil), heavy fuel oil (bunker C), diesel, and propane to produce heat or electricity.
Heavy fuel oil generates the most GHGs (3 kg for every litre of oil burned), while propane generates the least (1.5 kg for every litre of propane burned).
PEI’s emissions from buildings have been decreasing over the years as more people are improving building efficiency and switching to electric heating systems.
PEI's remaining emissions come from the manufacturing (8%) and waste (5%) sectors.
Does PEI have a GHG emissions reduction target?
In 2018, the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island adopted a new, more ambitious GHG reduction target of 1.2 Mt CO2e by 2030, which is a 40% reduction below 2005 levels.  This target is established in the Climate Leadership Act.
Right now, Prince Edward Island’s GHG emissions are 15% below 2005 levels, or 41% of the way towards the newly adopted target.  PEI is on track to meet this target.
In late 2020, PEI announced its commitment to be net zero by 2040.  Net Zero has more information about the path towards reaching PEI's net zero goal.  Current efforts are expected to continue to lower emissions but it will not be enough.  Meeting this target will not be easy, but it is possible if we all work together.
In PEI, we all have a role to play in reducing emissions.  47% of PEI’s emissions come from households - from the fuel that is used to heat homes and drive vehicles.
What is PEI doing to lower GHG emissions?
The Government of PEI had identified a number of actions in A Climate Change Action Plan for Prince Edward Island that have been reducing emissions.
Recently, PEI’s 2040 Net Zero Framework outlines Government’s plan to meet 2040.
What does a tonne of CO2 look like?
Visit One Tonne of CO2 to see what kind of activities produce one tonne of CO2.
Who can I contact for more information?
Erin Taylor (Manager, Climate Change Secretariat)
Jones Building, 4th Floor
11 Kent Street
Charlottetown, PEI  C1A 7N8
Telephone: (902) 368-6111
Fax: (902) 368-5830
Email: eotaylor@gov.pe.ca
Published date: April 25, 2022
Environment, Energy and Climate Action
Resources
PEI’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions Infographic One Tonne of CO2 2040 Net Zero FrameworkClimate Change Action Plan 2018-2023Climate Change Action Plan Progress Report
Additional Links
Electric Vehicle Incentiv...
Is it compost, waste or r...
Public Transit
Help for Island residents...
Transit PEI
PEI recycling even more a...
General Inquiries
Department of Environment, Energy and Climate Action
4th Floor, Jones Building
11 Kent Street
PO Box 2000
Charlottetown, PE C1A 7N8
Phone: 902-368-5044
Toll-free: 1-866-368-5044
Fax: 902-368-5830
Report an Environmental Concern
DeptEECA@gov.pe.ca
About this site
Mental Health and Addictions – Don’t wait. Trained professionals are available 24/7. Call 833-553-6983
Contact Us
Access PEI Locations
Employee Directory
Calendar of Events
News
Publications
Facebook
Subscribe
Twitter
Flickr
Youtube
Linkedin
© 2023 Government of Prince Edward Island
Privacy
Disclaimer
Accessibility